            pc/bb 

6ú Samhain, 2019. 

FOGRA CRUINNITHE 

Meeting of Wexford County Council 
On Monday 11th November, 2019 – 2.30 p.m. 
In the Council Chamber, Wexford County 
Council, Carricklawn, Wexford. 

A Chara, 

Tionólfar cruinniú de’n Chomhairle mar a léiritear thuas.   Tá súil agam go mbeidh tú i 

láthair. 

Beidh Clár ordaithe an Bhainisteóra ar fail i rith an chruinnithe. 

Mise, le meas, 

Padraig O’Coileáin,  
Runai 

1. 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting – 11th November, 2019. 

1.  Presentation to the Council – Music Generation 

2.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1County Council Meeting – 14th October, 2019. 
2.2Special County Council Meeting – 9th September, 2019. (Amended) 

3.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1 Proposed disposal of property at Cois Mara, Rosslare Strand. 
3.2 Proposed disposal of Land at Seamount, Ardamine, Co. Wexford.  
3.3 Proposed disposal of a property 71 Ard Alainn, Castlebridge, Co. Wexford. 

4.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

LAC 1906 Refurbishment and upgrade a fire damaged house and rebuild a 2 bedroom semi-
detached bungalow along with auxiliary and associated site works at No. 21 St. Martin’s Park, 
Ballycullane, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 
LAC 1907 Proposed Development of a single storey detached dwelling at Glasganny (E.D. 
Ardcavan), Co. Wexford. 

5.  Proposed Amendments to Standing Orders 

6.  Annual Report 2018 

7.  Ratification of  Representatives to SPC’s 

8.  Report of Corporate Policy Group 

9.  Town and Village Renewal Programme 2019 

10. Chief Executive’s Report 

11. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training 

12. Minutes of Meetings: 

12.1 Enniscorthy Municipal District – 16.09.19 
12.2 Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District – 17.09.19 
12.3 New Ross Municipal District – 11.09.19 
12.4 Wexford Borough District – 16.09.19 

13. Sealing of Documents 

14. Correspondence and Communications 

Correspondence from Minister Simon Harris regarding palliative care for children. 

2. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. Notices of Motion 

15.1Cllr. Fionntán OSúilleabháin 

"That Wexford County Council will exercise its duty of responsibility to act in the best interest 
of the health and safety of the people and the environment of County Wexford in relation to 
5G technology and: 

1.  That  Wexford  County  Council  call  on  ComReg  to  stop  the  licensing  of  this  roll  out  with 
immediate effect. 

2. That we call on the Minister for Communications, Climate Change and the Environment to 
establish the facts about the radiation impact of 5G technology on human and environmental 
health,  based  upon  up-to-date,  5G  specific,  scientific,  peer-reviewed  studies 
from 
independent global resources-the reports of which, are to be presented to the Oireachtas for 
consideration. 

This  council  further  notes  that  on  18th  April  2019,  the  advisory  group  of  the  International 
Agency  for  Research  on  Cancer  (IARC)  of  the World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  released 
new  recommendations  to  reassess  as  a  “High  Priority”  the  cancer  risks  of  radiofrequency 
(RF) radiation between 2020–2024.  

The  IARC  advisory  group  of  29  scientists  from  18  countries  met  in  March,  2019.  Many 
WHO/IARC  scientists  have  publicly  stated  the  classification  will  likely  strengthen  to  a 
Category 1 risk, due to the (NTI ) National Toxicology Program study. “ 

15.2 Cllr. Tom Forde 

"We ask that this Council become, and promote itself as, a Living Wage employer and call on 
government to   
1. recognise the huge contribution low paid workers make to the Irish economy;  
2. reverse their decision not to increase the national minimum wage;  
3. introduce a Living Wage (set by the Living Wage Technical Group) of €12.30 per hour in 
2020." 

15.3 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

     Smoky Coal Ban  
     Noting 

(i) the seriously damaging effects on health and the environment of the continued burning 
of smoky coal 
(ii) the motion carried by this Council in March, 2015 seeking to prohibit the burning of 
smoky coals in the County; 
(iii) the announcement in October, 2015 by then Minister, Alan Kelly, of the Government's 
intention to proceed with a nationwide ban; 
(iv) the further motion carried by this Council in March, 2017, expressing concern at the 
failure of Government to proceed with this ban and the continued failure since; 

3. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(v) the call in that motion in March 2017 for the introduction of this ban within six months; 
(vi) the continued evidence of the damage caused by the burning of smoky fuels being 
provided by the Council's own assessments; 
(vii) the Council’s unanimous agreement to a motion in April introduce and enforce a 
Countywide ban on the sale and use of smoky coals to take effect on 1st May 2019 and to 
provide an information campaign to consumers on the dangers of poor air quality and on 
this ban; 
(viii) the priority given to tackling this issue as part of the new Council’s Civic Agreement; 
(ix) the failure of Government to take this issue sufficiently seriously and its lack of action 
in dealing with poor air quality, and their prohibition on us taking direct action on this 
matter, 

Wexford County Council expresses no confidence in the Minister for Communications, 
Climate Change and the Environment and his officials in their handling of ensuring better 
air quality through the banning of the sale and burning of smoky coals, 

And agrees to seek legal advice on the Minister’s action in preventing us from 
implementing our own Countywide ban, such advice to be presented to the Council at our 
December meeting for consideration”. 

15.4 Cllr. Michael Sheehan, Cathaoirleach 

“That this Council expresses it’s dismay at the conditions,  overcrowding and treatment of 
patients at the Psychiatric Unit of UHW and calls on the Minister for Health to apologise to 
the frontline staff, patients and their families for the conditions.  

Furthermore, this Council calls on the HSE to conduct a full investigation and to make 
resources available to ensure age appropriate accommodation and beds for patients in 
the area.” 

15.5 Cllr. Davy Hynes: 

“This council supports the call by former ministers for drugs re ‘The National Drugs 
Strategy which is  danger of collapse’ and the urgent need for extra  support and funding 
to the Drugs and Alcohol Task  Forces at this time when communities are threatened by 
this growing scourge.” 

15.6 Cllr. Leonard Kelly: 

“Early intervention is key to addressing Mental Health issues. So why are CAMHS 
Wexford South still operating out of Slaney House, a building that was deemed not fit for 
purpose in 2009? And why are there multiple vacancies across the specialist staff required 
to provide the Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services required by some of our most 
vulnerable young people. And what is the plan, with timelines to fill these vacancies? 

I call on the Minister for Health and the HSE to provide answers to these questions.” 

16. Any Other Business   

4. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
