County Council Meeting 12.05.25 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 12th May 2025 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT  

KEHOE 

PAT 

SHANNON 

RAYMOND 

BOLAND 

NICKY 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

STAPLES 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

LAFFAN 

GARRY 

STAPLES 

MCDONALD 

DARRAGH 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

FRANK  

ROBBIE 

WALSH 

WALSH 

CATHERINE  

OLIVER 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD 

DOYLE 

CRAIG 

MURPHY 

DWYER 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

KAVANAGH 

PADDY 

OWENS 

LISA 
(ONLINE) 
BARBARA-
ANNE 
BRIDÍN 
(ONLINE) 
MARTY 

JOHN 
(ONLINE) 
JACKSER 
(ONLINE) 

Officials: 

Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Liz Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Lynda Lacey, Director of Finance 
Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: Ms. Jacqueline Carroll, Director of Services, Cllr. Vicky Barron, Cllr. Aoife Rose O’Brien 

Page 1 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.05.25 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of Daniel Connolly, partner of Ann Marie Laffan, Community Department. 
•  The family of Josephine Doyle (née Howlin) Libgate, Kilmore Quay, Wexford, former County 

Councillor and aunt of Michelle Howlin, Library HQ. 

•  The family of Michael Nicholson Snr., father of partner of Ms. Jackie Carroll, Director of 

Services. 

•  The family of Jackie Stacey, Shanbogh, Rosbercon, Co. Kilkenny. 
•  The family of Seamus Joyce, Tomfarney, Clonroche, Co. Wexford. 

Cllr. L. Kelly acknowledged the tragic loss of Garda Kevin Flatley who lost his life over the weekend 
in the course of his duty. 

Cllr. B.A. Murphy acknowledged the recent passing of Pope Francis and remembered Jo Doyle, a 
well-respected and much-loved former Councillor who passed away recently. Cllr. J. Codd echoed 
Cllr. Murphy and Cllr. Kelly’s comments. 

Cathaoirleach Cllr. P. Breen called for a minute’s silence to honour their passing. The attendance 
stood for a minute’s silence in memory of the deceased. 

Congratulations: 

•  Cllr. J. Codd congratulated the organisers of the arts and crafts fair in Kilmore. 
•  Cllr. M. Sheehan congratulated the Augustinian Order in New Ross on the election of Pope 

Leo, a member of the Augustinian order. 

•  Cllr.’s M. Sheehan and J. Sullivan congratulated Mr. Tom Enright, former Chief Executive on 

being appointed Ryder Cup Project Director 2027. 

•  Cllr.’s  D.  Kenny,  J.  Sullivan  and  D.  McDonald  congratulated  Gorey  Rugby  Club  on  their 

excellent season winning the Provincial Towns Cup and the league. 

•  Cllr. D. McDonald congratulated Garda Eoin Walsh on being awarded player of the 4 Nations 

police tournament. 

•  Cllr. P. Kehoe congratulated Castledockrell Newpark United soccer club on winning the Gwyn 

Jones Cup. 

•  Cllr. B.A. Murphy congratulated Bunclody on winning the Under-19 Cup final. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 County Council Meeting 14th April, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved to 
confirm the minutes of the County Council Meeting on 14th April, 2025. 

Matters Arising: 
Cllr. M. Sheehan asked that Martina Queally, Regional Executive Officer, HSE Dublin and 
South East be invited to a meeting of Wexford County Council to discuss issues. Cllr. J. 

Page 2 of 7 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.05.25 

Fleming stressed his willingness to bring any issues the Members may have to the Regional 
Health Forum. 

1.2 Special Meeting of Wexford County Council focusing on Housing Delivery on 6th May, 

2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
confirm the minutes of the Special Meeting of Wexford County Council focusing on Housing 
Delivery on 6th May, 2025. 

Matters Arising: 
There were no matters arising. 

2.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001 : 

2.1 Transfer of a portion of land to the rear of 8 Mount Leinster Park, Kilmyshall, 

Bunclody, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

 On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Kehoe the Council resolved to 
dispose of a portion of land to the rear of 8 Mount Leinster Park, Kilmyshall, Bunclody, 
Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as 
circulated. 

2.2 Intention to grant a deed of wayleave at Ballyprecas, Kilmyshall, Bunclody, 

Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford (Mount Leinster Park) 

 On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Kehoe the Council resolved to 
grant a deed of wayleave at Ballyprecas, Kilmyshall, Bunclody, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford 
(Mount Leinster Park), in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as 
circulated. 

2.3 Intention to dispose of property at 111 North Main Street, Wexford Town. 

On the proposal of Cllr. C. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. R. Staples the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at 111 North Main Street, Wexford Town, in accordance with the terms 
set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.4 Intention to dispose of property at Crossroads Foodstore, Wygram Place, Wexford        

Town. 

 On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. R. Staples the Council resolved to dispose 
of property at Crossroads Foodstore, Wygram Place, Wexford Town, in accordance with 
the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

Page 3 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.05.25 

3. 

Draft Wexford County Council Policy on Roadside Memorials – For Adoption 

Cllr. J. Sullivan welcomed the Policy on Roadside Memorials but felt the timeframe of 24 
months stipulated in Section 5 Subsection E isn’t sufficient. Cllr. Sullivan proposed an 
amendment increasing the timeframe of 24 months to 60 months. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
adopt the Policy on Roadside Memorials subject to the increase in the timeframe at Section 
5 Subsection E to 60 months. 

4. 

Draft County Wexford Road Safety Plan – 2025 – 2030 – For Adoption 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Council resolved to 
adopt the County Wexford Road Safety Plan 2025 – 2030. 

Cllr. G. Carthy requested that the County Secretary write to the Chief Superintendent 
requesting the number of speeding detections by the Traffic Core and Go Safe Vans in the 
past 24 months in the villages of Killinick, Tagoat, and Kilrane or on the approaches to 
these villages. Cllr. Carthy also sought specific detail in relation to the number of detections 
relating to HGV’s and if possible, the speed all vehicles were detected travelling at. 

5. 

Invitation to delegation to travel to Fishguard, Wales – 23rd to 26th May, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd the Council resolved to send a 
delegation to Fishguard, Wales from 23rd to 26th May, 2025. 

6. 

Date of Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 

On the proposal of Cathaoirleach Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan the Council 
resolved to fix the date of the Annual Meeting for 23rd June, 2025 at 2.30pm. 

7. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  How many private housing units have been granted planning permission in County 

Wexford but have not commenced? 

•  Request for signage asking people not to enter the railed off area on Curracloe beach 

which has been planted with marram grass. 

•  Query as to how funding could be accessed to alleviate flooding on the road in Bunclody 

and Clohamon. 

•  Request that sensible rules and regulations be drafted to allow mobile saunas operate at 

beaches in County Wexford. 

•  The increase of €1m in the housing grants allocation was welcomed. 
•  Disappointment expressed at Wexford County Council’s decision not to renew the lease 
on the Mill Park Road carpark. Request that no final decision be made until the matter is 
brought before an Enniscorthy Municipal District meeting for discussion. 

Page 4 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.05.25 

•  Query if there is an opportunity for the Wexford Borough Municipal District Office to be 

moved to the Ballast Office. 

•  Request for update on the Wexfordia project and any other new tourism initiatives in 

Wexford. 

•  Request that the plans for the grainstore and Castlebridge House be brought before a 

meeting of Wexford Borough Municipal District. 

•  Query if the plan for safety works at Larkins Cross on the N25 will be brought before a 

meeting of Wexford Borough Municipal District. 

•  Request that drains be cleared and the pavement power washed in Wexford town 

centre prior to the Fleadh. 

•  Given that Castlebridge is the birthplace of the Guinness Book of Records, can Wexford 

County Council reach out to Diageo to see if they are willing to get involved in the 
restoration of Castlebridge House. 

•  Request that Wexford County Council highlight the challenges faced by owners of 

thatched properties to get insurance with only one company in the market. 

•  Update sought on additional roads funding with the poor condition of roads in Carrick 

and Ballygow highlighted as needing investment. 

•  Request that a letter be sent to Comreg highlighting the poor broadband connectivity in 

Kilmore village. 

•  Who should someone speak to regarding offering land to Wexford County Council for 

sale? 

•  Will land be purchased in villages or just towns? 
•  Will Wexford County Council allow clusters of houses to use stand-alone treatment 

systems? 

•  Query when will Wexford County Council commence using cctv cameras to detect 

offenders? 

•  View expressed that the time taken to process housing grant applications has 

lengthened considerably and query if this is down to a lack of staff? The counter view 
that the length of time taken to approve grants hasn’t extended was also expressed. 
•  Query in relation to road signage on the N25 with the view expressed that there should 
be additional signs erected on the left-hand side of the road travelling from Wexford to 
highlight junctions. 

•  Query if there is a list of public beaches and access rights to beaches. 
•  Erection of static speed camera on Arklow Road in Gorey welcomed.  
•  Excessive speed of HGV’s at Ferrycarrig and Kyle Cross was highlighted. 
•  Update sought on the progress of Forth Mountain Activity Park. 
•  Update sought on plans for Old Dublin Road Business Park in Enniscorthy. 
•  Update sought on Safe Routes to School scheme. 
•  Request that Wexford County Council undertake an audit outlining zoned land which 

hasn’t been developed and zoned land which is available. 

•  The organisers of the Fringe Fleadh were congratulated on the successful launch. 
•  Query why a Member of Wexford County Council wasn’t invited to the Fleadh event in 

Sligo. 

•  Query if people operating a commercial premises on a road can partake in the Local 

Improvements Scheme. 

•  View expressed that the Planning and Environment departments should work together 

to allow smaller sites for units using a stand-alone treatment system. 

Page 5 of 7 

 
 
County Council Meeting 12.05.25 

•  Request for a policy on the standardised use of speed ramps across the County. 
•  Frustration expressed that the Safe Routes to School proposal for the Ballagh village 

which will have a major impact wasn’t brought before the district Members in advance 
of it being made public. 

•  Request that the road signs between Baldwinstown and Kilmore which have been 

damaged be replaced. 

•  Request that the Members on the Regional Health Forum clarify what is required for a 

medical diagnosis of autism. 

•  Query if properties being acquired through Town Centre First are assessed by the Fire 

Service to ensure they comply with fire safety regulations. 

•  Request that Wexford County Council run a social media campaign highlighting how you 
identify Japanese Knotweed and the do’s and don’t’s in relation to Japanese Knotweed. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

Cllr.’s G. Carthy, J. Dwyer, G. Laffan, J. Owens, and O. Walsh left the meeting at this point. 

8. 

Minutes of CPG 

8.1 Minutes of CPG Meeting 6th May, 2025 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd the Council resolved to 
adopt the minutes of the CPG Meeting on 6th May, 2025. 

9. 

Minutes of Meetings (for Noting): 

9.1 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 25th March, 2025 
9.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 26th March, 2025 
9.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 24TH March, 2025 
9.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 25th March, 2025 
9.5 Rosslare Municipal District –31st March, 2025 
9.6 Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment SPC 25th April, 2024 
9.7 Planning and Building Control SPC 25th April, 2024 
9.8 Transportation & Water Services SPC – 16th May, 2024 

 The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

10. 

Correspondence and Communications 

10.1 Letter from Sligo County Council dated 9th April, 2025 re: motion. 
10.2 Email from Deputy Malcolm Byrne re: motion dated 17th April, 2025 
10.3 Letter from Kerry County Council re: motion dated 22nd April, 2025 
10.4 Letter from Office of the Tánaiste and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade re motion 
dated 29th April, 2025 
10.5 Email from Minister for Education re: motion dated 1st May, 2025 
10.6 Letter from HSE re: motion dated 17th April, 2025 

 The Members noted the correspondence, as circulated. 

Page 6 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.05.25 

11. 

Councillor's Conferences and Training 

19.1 List of Conferences / Training 

22nd May 2025 

AILG training “Emergency Response – Council’s Supporting 
Communities in Weather Crisis”. Radisson Blu Hotel Sligo (Out of 
Region). 

24th May 2025 

Rose Hotel Tralee (Southern Region). 

19th June 2025 

AILG training “A New Approach to Planning – the Revised National 
Planning Framework & Planning Act”. Radisson Blu Cork (Southern 
Region). 

21st June 2025 

Hillgrove Hotel, Monaghan (Out of Region). 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the Council resolved to 
approve attendance at the above listed training. 

11.2 Delegation Report: 
Report of Cllr. Barbara-Anne Murphy - Irish Public Bodies Annual General Meeting held in 
Galway on 2nd May. 

The Members noted the report, as circulated. 

12. 

Any Other Business 

Cllr. M. Sheehan enquired if it is compulsory for a landlord to accept HAP and if so, does 
the Housing Department highlight this fact to tenants and landlords. 

Cllr. J. Codd enquired if Wexford County Council in conjunction with other bodies and/or 
agencies has taken any steps to deal with the increasing use of synthesised opiates. 

Cllr. N. Boland enquired if Wexford County Council could roll out warning signs highlighting 
the use of cctv cameras for the detection of fly tipping. Cllr. Boland noted that it may act as 
a deterrent.  

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Meitheamh, 2025. 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 7 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
