County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council held on Monday  13th November 2023 in 
the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

Ó’SÚILLEABHÁIN 

JOHN 
(Remote) 
FIONNTÁN 

BREEN 

PIP 

HYNES 

DAVID 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

STAPLES  

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

LAWLOR 

LAFFAN 

GARRY 
(Remote) 
GEORGE 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

FRANK 
(Remote) 
JOE 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MOORE 

JIM 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

BRIDÍN 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Lynda Lacey, A/Head of Finance 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Director of Services 

Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services  

Ms Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

Ms. Susan Doran, A/County Secretary 

Apologies: Cllr. Maura Bell, Cllr. Diarmuid Devereux 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

•  The family of Matt Drea, Inistioge, Co. Kilkenny – brother of Michael Drea, County 

Secretary.  

•  The family of Seán McDermot, Newtown Road, Wexford. 

•  The family of Joe Bradley, Brownestown, Newbawn, Co. Wexford. 

•  The family of Paddy Murphy Senior, Monastery, Ramsgrange, Co. Wexford. 

•  The Casey family, The Oil, Oilgate on the passing of Jim Howlin. 

Congratulations: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the congratulations of the Council to: 

•  Gusserane Ladies Intermediate Football Champions. 

•  Wexford boxer Dean Waters, on his win at National Stadium in Irish Elite 

Preliminaries. 

•  All Involved in the delivery and opening of the Emigrant Park, New Ross. 

•  Ramsgrange Junior Football Team on County final win. 

•  All involved in the success of the Opera Festival. 

•  Wexford Boxers – St. Josephs, Enniscorthy Club. 

•  Executive Team of the Council on the IDA Partnership for the Advance Factory in 

Enniscorthy. 

•  Shelmaliers on their Wexford Senior Football Title win. 

•  Naomh Eanna for Senior Hurling Championship win. 

•  Enniscorthy Community Allotments on their Pride of Place Award. 

•  All those involved in the special Remembrance Day Ceremony at Sea to remember 

the lives tragically lost on the SS St Patrick in 1941. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  A.  Connick,  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Whelan  the  Council  resolved  to 
suspend standing orders to allow for a presentation by Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive on the 
Master Plan for the Ballynagee lands which will incorporate the SETU Campus, schools, sports 
and community facilities and housing development. 

 
County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

. 
1. 

Presentation on Master Plan for Ballynagee Lands 

Mr. T. Enright gave a presentation on a transformational project which will bring unique 
opportunities to Wexford Town, County and Southeast region.   Mr. Enright stated that this 
project would not be coming to fruition without the support of the Council. He thanked Ms. 
L. Hore, Director of Services and the Property Management Section for their work.    

Mr. Enright presented the Master Plan proposals for the SETU Campus and large-scale 
sports facilities to the Members. The plan includes provision for over 600 social, affordable, 
and private homes, 2 new schools and community facilities.   

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services explained the master planning process and timeline and 
that there will be a consultation process for all stakeholders.  

Both Mr. Enright and Mr. Taaffe took questions from the Members who were fully 
supportive of the project and welcomed the opportunities it will bring to the County and 
region. The Members offered their congratulations to the Chief Executive and his staff for 
their work on the project and look forward its completion. 

2. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

2.1. 

County Council Meeting of 9th October 2023 

Cllr. B.A. Murphy sought correction to item 14.6, the minutes should have read the 
motion was proposed by Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan.  

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy and seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh the Council 
resolved to confirm the Minutes of County Council Meeting on 9th October 2023, as 
amended.  

Matters arising: 

Cllr. Forde wanted it noted that motions being referred to the Housing SPC do not 
get discussed at a full Council and he doesn’t agree with this approach. 

3. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1. 

Intention  to  extend  the  lease  of  lands  at  Castlebridge  to  Castlebridge 

Community Development Co-Operative Society Limited. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty the Council resolved to 
extend the lease of lands at Castlebridge, in accordance with the terms set out in the 
S.183 Notice as circulated.   

3.2. 

Intention to transfer an area of land at Maudlintown. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly the Council resolved to 
transfer an area of land at Maudlintown, in accordance with the terms set out in the 
S.183 Notice as circulated.   

3.3. 

Intention  to  dispose  of  property  at  Ballynadrishoge,  Blackwater,  Co. 

Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at Ballynadrishoge, Blackwater, Co. Wexford, in accordance with 
the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.   

3.4. 

Intention to dispose of property at Raheenduff, Oulart, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at Raheenduff, Oulart, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms 
set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.   

3.5. 

Intention to dispose of property at Arnestown, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick the Council resolved 
to dispose of property at Arnestown, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.   

3.6. 

Intention to dispose of property at Landscape, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Barden, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Council resolved 
to dispose of property at Landscape, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.   

4. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

4.1 LAC2308 – Develop a public realm space at Crescent Quay between Harbers 

Lane and Oyster Lane and to construct a temporary multi-function venue at 

Crescent Quay, Wexford. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. G. 

Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the 

development of a public realm space at Crescent Quay between Harbers Lane and 

Oyster Lane and to construct a temporary multi-function venue at Crescent Quay, 

Wexford of in accordance with the terms of LAC2308, as circulated. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

5. 

Southeast Regional Homeless Action Plan 2023-2026 

Having considered the report of Ms. C. Godkin, and the recommendation of the Housing & 

Community SPC on the 3rd and 10th November 2023 that the Southeast Regional Homeless 

Action Plan and Wexford County Council’s Homeless Action Plan be adopted subject to 

agreed observations and agreed continued action, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, 

seconded by Cllr. G. Carty, the Council resolved to adopt the plans in accordance with 

Section 37 of the Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 2009, as circulated. 

A discussion on homeless services, housing supply and choice based letting followed.   

Cllr. B.A. Murphy proposed that there be a special meeting on Housing where the Members 

set the agenda, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan. 

Ms. C. Godkin stated that she will facilitate this meeting request.  

6. 

Audited AFS 2022 & Audit Report 2022 

Having considered the report of Ms. L. Lacey, on the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded 

by Cllr. J. Moore, the Council resolved to approve the Audited AFS 2022 and Statutory Audit 

Report to the Members of Wexford County Council for the year ended 31st December 2022, 

as circulated. 

7. 

Briefing on SETU Campus, Schools, Sports and Community facilities and Housing 

Development. 

This item was covered under item 1. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

8. 

Chief Executive’s Report. 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 

queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Senan House, Enniscorthy Technology Park – tenant promotion 

• 

IDA agreement regarding Advance Factory, Enniscorthy  

•  Septic Tank Grant application criteria 

 
County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

• 

Japanese knotweed issue on road verges 

•  Local Transport Plan progress update 

•  Heritage Officer 

•  Biodiversity Officer 

•  Adequacy of road crew resources to deal with future weather events 

•  Traffic around Killeen’s/Sinnottstown Lane and congestion in town   

•  Recent flooding and road surface water 

•  Flood barrier subvention query 

•  Cleaning of drains and canals 

• 

Insurance issue for property owners in flood zones 

•  Adverse weather events and preparation in advance 

•  Rosslare Harbour meeting regarding the Great Southern Hotel 

•  Bunclody PPP Site  

•  Progress on accommodation at the Adoration Convent 

•  Oylegate to Rosslare Scheme Update 

•  Request that the Chief Executive write to An Garda Síochána HQ regarding CCTV 

Scheme currently with them to expediate matters please 

•  Adequacy of staff resources within the Housing Section 

•  Status of Gorey Market House 

•  Affordable Housing Scheme for the County 

• 

Illegal dumping and the use of CCTV 

•  Flood Protection Scheme for Enniscorthy 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, the Council resolved to 

suspend Standing Orders at this time.    

•  St. Walerans progress update 

Cllr. L. Kelly and Cllr. M. Whelan left the meeting at this point. 

•  Sites in Rosslare Harbour for housing and community facilities 

Cllr. P. Barden left the meeting at this point. 

 
County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

•  Kilrane Rosslare Harbour Cycle Scheme footpath update  

Cllr. G. Carty left the meeting at this point. 

•  The report of the Interdepartmental Group on the Management of Coastline  

Cllr. A. Browne and Cllr. J. Owens left the meeting at this point. 

•  Street Lighting and fallen power cables 

Cllr. A. Donohoe left the meeting at this point.  

•  Update sought on the Advance Factory, New Ross 

•  Possibility of a Nighttime Economy Officer 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd, the Council resolved to 

continue to suspend Standing Orders to finish questions on the CE Report. 

•  Pilot Affordable Housing Scheme in Ramsfort, Gorey 

•  Sports Complex for New Ross 

•  Public Lighting issues in New Ross 

•  Planning issues delaying housing 

•  Flooding of the Ahare River 

•  Odour issue at Ballyminaun 

•  Community Climate Action Programme funding 

•  Wilton Bridge re-opening timeframe 

•  Heavy rainfall affecting farmers and their harvest 

•  Flooding concerns in Bridgetown  

• 

Is any support available for businesses effected by the road works in Kilmore?  

•  Who is responsible for the majority of waterways? 

•  Are there periodic checks on older Council Housing Stock regarding electric cables? 

Cllr. K. Codd- Nolan left the meeting at this point. 

• 

Is there a possibility of the Council issuing ‘letters of comfort’ to households for 

insurance purposes? 

 
County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

•  Wexford Local Development and the Ukrainian Community 

•  Can a Palestine flag be erected on the Council HQ? 

•  Can an Israel flag be erected on the Council HQ? 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, the Council resolved to refer 

the question on the erection of flags to the Protocol Committee.  

9. 

Minutes of CPG 

9.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 6th November 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan and seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Council resolved to 

confirm the Minutes of the CPG Meeting on 6th November 2023.  

10.  Minutes for Noting 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

10.1  New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 13th September 2023   

10.2   Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 20th September 2023   

10.3   Borough District of Wexford Meeting– 18th September 2023   

10.4   Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 18th September 2023   

10.5  Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 19th September 2023   

10.6    Planning & Building Control SPC - 27th April 2023   

The members noted the above minutes. 

11.  

Correspondence and Communications 

11.1   Letter from Clare County Council re: motion dated 12th October 2023 
Email from Minister Butler’s Office re motion dated 25th October 2023 
11.2 
Email from Minister O'Brien's Office re motion dated 26th October 2023 
11.3 

The members noted the above correspondence. 

12.  

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  

12.1 

List of Conferences/Training – List Attached  

12.2  Councillor’s Conference Reports: 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.11.23 

•  KIMO International Annual Conference 2023, Falkenberg, Sweden 4th 

to 6th October 2023 

•  Wexford London Association Delegation Report October 2023  

The members noted the above reports, as circulated. 

By agreement, motions were deferred until the next meeting.  

Any Other Business. 

The Cathaoirleach Cllr. J. Fleming informed the Members that the Annual Chairmans 
Christmas Dinner is scheduled for 11th December and former members of the Council are 
welcome. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Nollaig, 2023. 

________________________  

________________________ 

Cllr. John Fleming 

Cathaoirleach  

Michael Drea,  

County Secretary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
