County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 12th June, 2017 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. P. Kavanagh, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
M. Murphy;    
J. O’Rourke   
F. Staples                 J. Sullivan; 

G. Carthy; 
M. Byrne; 
A. Donohoe,   
T. Dempsey;   
J. Fleming  
W. Fitzharris;  
W. Kavanagh; 
R. Ireton; 
J. Moore; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen; 
L. O’Brien; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 

D. Wadding;   

K. Codd Nolan 
K. Doyle, 
J. Hegarty,  
A. Kelly;  
BA Murphy,    
O. O’Connell; 
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
M. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. S. Begley, Management Accountant; 
Ms. D. Kearns, Senior Executive Planner; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary/ Mr. D. Minogue, Communications Officer 
Mr. G. Mackey, Administrative Officer; 
Mr. Hugh Maguire, Administrative Officer; 

Apologies:   

Councillor O. Walsh. 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their votes of sympathy to the following: 

  The family of Bernard Dunne, Enniscorthy, former employee of WCC 
  The family of Sean Radford, Kilmore, formerly of Kilmore Life Boat 
  The family of Hughie Moore, St. Peter’s Square, Wexford 
  The family of Myles Quigley, employee Housing Section, WCC 
  The family of Patrick Banville, father of Tom Banville, Local Enterprise Office 
  The family of Vera Noonan, mother of Denis Noonan, Finance Dept, and mother-in-law of 

Rita Byrne, IT Dept. 

  The family of Anthony Hobbs, father of Fran Hobbs, Environment Department. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

Congratulations: 

The Members expressed their congratulations to the following: 

  The Cathaoirleach congratulated the Wexford Senior Hurling Team for its victory last 

Saturday evening over Kilkenny.  He highlighted the feel good factor and the lift to people 
living in County Wexford.   

He congratulated the hurlers, their supporters and Management and Officials who 
organised the event, catering for the thousands of supporters who attended the match.  The 
Chairman’s remarks were echoed by many of the Members present. 

  The Gorey Market Show 
  The Wexford CBS Soccer Team 
  The Wexford CBS Senior Sprint Team 
  Barntown National School on winning the Rackard Cup 
  Adamstown School on its official opening held recently 
  Ramsgrange Community for their recent achievement in hurling 
  Eurovelo Cycle Race in Saltmills 
  Jeremy Corbyn and the Labour Party on their performance in the UK General Election 
  Gordon Barry who won a prize recently for song writing 
  Emily McCann who was recently appointed Chief Commissioner of the Girl Guides of 

Ireland 

  The Chamber of Commerce Business Awards winners, in particular Nolan Transport, who 

won the overall award 

  The Caulfield family in Campile whose son was recently ordained a priest 
  The Lions Rugby Team and in particular Tadgh Furlong 
  The District Manager Angela Laffan for her organisation of the 100th Anniversary of Willie 

Redmond and the Seafarers mass 

  The Cathaoirleach advised that, accompanied by the Chief Executive, he had visited 

Messine Ridge in Belgium recently and attended the commemoration at Willie Redmond’s 
grave which he described as a very moving occasion.   

They also attended an event at Menin Gate, Ypres where the Last Post is sounded every 
evening at 8pm, a tradition which has continued since the 1st World War with the exception 
of the period of German occupation during World War II.   

The Cathaoirleach also advised that there is a monument with the names of 36,000 young 
men killed during World War 1, whose bodies were never recovered. 

  The Cathaoirleach advised that Caroline Horan, Access Officer, was taking part in a cycle 
in Vietnam for the Christine Noble Charity and asked Members to support her efforts by 
signing the sponsorship card which was circulated to the meeting. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1County Council Meeting – 8th May, 2017. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  M.  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  A.  Connick,  the  Council 
approved the minutes of the County Council Meeting held on 8th May, 2017.   

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

Matters  arising  –  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  stated  that  it  had  been  agreed  at  the  last  meeting  of  the 
Council  that  a  Consultant’s  Study  on  wind  farms  would  be  available  to  Members  prior  to 
today’s  meeting.    Mr.  T.  Larkin,  Director  of  Services,  advised  that  this  report  would  be 
available at the end of June 2017 and will be circulated to the Members before being made 
public. 

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Proposed transfer of land at Carricklawn, Wexford to John and Margaret Whelan, 
Newtown Road, Wexford. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  K.  Codd  Nolan  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne,  the  Members 
agreed  to  the  proposed  disposal  of  land  as  outlined  in  accordance  with  the  notices 
circulated.  

3.  Chief Executive’s Report on the Pre-draft Consultations on the Review of the 

Wexford County Development Plan 2013-2019 and the Preparation of a New Plan for 
the County: 

Following discussion it was agreed that a Special Meeting  to consider the Report  be held 
on Monday 3rd July, 2017 after the CPG Meeting.  The time of the CPG Meeting has been 
changed to 2pm on that date and the Special Planning Meeting will take place at 3pm. 

4.  Wexford County Council Draft Litter Management Plan 2017-2019: 

The Council then considered the Draft Litter Management Plan. A range of issues relating 
to the Draft Plan and littering were raised by Members, including the following: 

Increase of Litter Fines to €300 

 
  Use of photos as evidence of littering. 
  The introduction of a €2 Recycling Charge. 
 
  Flytipping 
  Reporting litter/flytipping incidents to the Environment Department. 

Issues about bottle banks. 

The Draft Wexford County Council Draft Litter Management Plan was proposed by Cllr. M. 
Byrne, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe and approved by all Members present in accordance 
with Section 10 and 11 of the Litter Pollution Act 1997 (as amended). 

5.  3 Year Capital Programme 2017-2019: 

It was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe that the programme be 
considered by each Municipal District and then brought back to the full meeting of the 
Council in July 2017. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

6.  Consideration of Draft Community Funding Scheme 2017-2020: 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, presented the Draft Community Funding Scheme 2017-
2020 to the meeting and advised that the grants scheme is designed to help community 
groups. 

The Draft Community Funding Scheme 2017-2020 as circulated was proposed by Cllr. M. 
Sheehan seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and agreed by all. 

7.  Appointment of HSE nominee  Ms. Jeane Hendrick to the Local Community 

Development Committee to replace Dr. Derval Howley: 

The appointment of HSE nominee Ms. Jeanne Hendrick to the Local Community 
Development Committee to replace Dr. Derval Howley was proposed by Cllr. A. Donohoe 
seconded by Cllr. T. Dempsey and agreed by all. 

8.  Ratification of Impact Representation to the Planning & Economic Development 

Strategic Policy Committee: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. D. Wadding and agreed by all it was 
agreed that the IMPACT representative on the Planning & Economic Development SPC is 
Clair Walsh who will replace Caroline Beale.  

9.  Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group was proposed by Cllr. A. Donohoe seconded by 
Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by all. 

10. Chief Executive’s Report: 

The Chief Executive’s Report for June 2017 was circulated to the meeting.  Questions 
raised by Councillors present were answered by Council Officials in attendance.  The 
issues raised included the following: 

  The new bridge in Enniscorthy 
  LEADER Grants (Draft Community Funding Scheme 2017-2020) 
  Village renewal scheme 

At 3.20 p.m. Cllr. Lisa McDonald arrived 

  Tender results for emergency accommodation 
  Taking in Charge 
  Timeframe for the development of the Market House in Gorey 
  Entrance/access to Kilmore Quay 
 

Invitation to Brendan McDonald of the IDA to attend meeting of Wexford County 
Council 

  Blue Flag Beaches 
  Removal of pier at Courtown 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

  3 Year Capital Programme 
  Ambassador Programme 
  Procurement 
  Data base of film locations 
  Swimming pools 
  Style of CE’s Report -  glossary of acronyms to be included 

11. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, the Members noted and 
approved the List of Councillors’ Conferences, Training and Reports as circulated to the 
meeting.  

  List of Conferences and Training June 2017 
  Report on visit to Coueron – Cllr. F. Staples, Mayor of Wexford 
  Report on London-Wexford Association – Cllr. F. Staples, Mayor of Wexford 
  Report of visit to Fleurus – Cllr. F. Staples, Mayor of Wexford. 

12. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe and agreed by all the 
Members present the following minutes were noted and approved. 

12.1 Borough District of Wexford 24.04.17 
12.2 New Ross Municipal District 12.04.17 
12.3 Gorey Municipal District 18.04.17 
12.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District 24.04.17 

It was agreed that the minutes of the Local Traveller Accommodation Consultative Committee 
would be circulated to the next meeting of the Council. 

13.Notices of Motion: 

13.1 Cllr. M. Byrne: 
"Noting that outside Dublin, Wexford County Council received the highest number of 
complaints of any local authority about antisocial behaviour by tenants in 2015 and 2016 and 
having regard to the continued perception that the Council adopts a 'softly, softly' approach to 
troublesome tenants, 
that the Council be provided with monthly reports on the number of complaints received and 
the type of action taken and further, that the Council's priority be the health, safety and 
wellbeing of those in our community who want to contribute and who do not cause problems." 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by 
all.  

13.2 Cllr. F.Ó Súilleabháin: 
"Wexford County Council notes the poor condition of this county's non-national roads, with a 
high percentage needing total reconstruction, and that we have been contributing a high 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

percentage of the total spend on these roads from our own resources - a figure much higher 
than other counties. 

It further notes that on many occasions, the government had indicated that local authorities 
such as ours, who have a good record of investing their own resources in roads maintenance, 
would receive additional funding, but that this has not happened. 

That Wexford County Council will now request an all-party meeting with the Minister to seek 
extra funding as a matter of urgency". 
The above motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin seconded by Cllr. O. O’Connell and 
agreed by all. 

13.3 Members of Fianna Fáil: 
"Given the allocation of €187m by the Irish Public Bodies to County Councils across Ireland 
under the "retained earnings distribution fund (2017-2019)" for the purpose of investing this 
money in the infrastructure of towns and villages in order to prevent accidents on footpaths 
that Wexford County Council ensure this payment is ring-fenced explicitly for this purpose and 
not subsumed into general income." 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe and agreed 
by all. 

13.4 Cllr. A. Kelly: 
“Acknowledging the constant difficult work of the housing staff and the recent Councils leasing 
initiative bid to the current housing needs, I move that this Council would embark on a 
substantial/adequate social housing building programme” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. A. Kelly seconded by Cllr. D. Wadding and agreed by 
all. 

13.5 Cllr. W. Kavanagh: 
“That this Council elects a sub-committee to promote 3rd Level Education in County Wexford”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. W. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. W. Fitzharris. 

Following discussion regarding the composition of the sub-committee the motion was agreed.  
It was agreed that each District would nominate a Member and depending on the result of the 
nominations that a Member from each party, including independents, would be then nominated 
if that party was not already represented on the Group.  

13.6 Cllr. J. Fleming: 
“Due to the huge amount of applications been granted for solar farms throughout the country 
and the probability that they will be subsidised through the PSO levy that we call on the 
government to withdraw the subsidy for the development of wind farms who by now should be 
capable of self financing and thus not increase the PSO levy”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed 
by all. 

13.7 Cllr. J. Mythen: 
“That this Council calls on the Minister for Social Protection to reinstate the Bereavement 
Grant, including to families, who have lost loved ones to suicide”. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Mythen seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by 
all. 

13.8 Cllr. D. Hynes: 
“This Council calls on Minister Simon Harris to urgently act on proposals to regulate this mental 
health sector. In particular counseling and psychotherapy, this would be a major step forward 
in light of a recent reported incidence where an individual passed himself off as a psychologist 
and was invited to speak at a high profile public event ( as reported in the People newspaper).  
This long awaited legislation will hopefully end the needless ambiguity around this vitally 
important area in the ‘talking therapies of mental health, addiction and suicide prevention 
professions’.  It is sadly the situation that people can describe themselves as a psychologist, 
counsellor or psychotherapist without the necessary accreditation from a properly regulated 
body. There are an estimated 5,000 counsellors and psychotherapists throughout the country 
and  it was announced last year by Minister Simon Harris that the sector is to be formally  
regulated for the first time, under plans that have been unveiled by the Department of Health, 
last year”.    

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. A. Kelly with an 
amendment to change “Simon Harris” to the “Minister”, all in favour. 

13.9 Cllr. B.A. Murphy: 
“Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community & Local 
Government to end discrimination against RAS tenants by allowing them to be eligible for all 
forms of social housing”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed 
by all.  

13.10 Cllr. J. Sullivan: 
“This Council calls on the Minister for Housing, Planning, Community and Local Government to 
amend the regulations in relation to the notification of people who are being removed from 
housing lists to the following: 

No person shall be removed from the housing list unless one of the following criteria has been 
observed: 

1. Notification by registered post. 
2. A signed acknowledgement by the person being removed that they  
    are aware of the removal. 
3. A signed declaration by a County Council member of housing staff that they have   
verbally informed the person being removed. 

Any person on a housing list who fails to engage within 3 years of the initial contact from the 
County Council may at that stage be removed”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Sullivan seconded by Cllr. D. Wadding and agreed 
by all. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

13.11 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“This Council totally rejects outright the plan being proposed by Min. Simon Coveney, 
as reported that the Local Government Minister is considering reducing the size of ten and 
eight seater council districts. Minister Coveney favours smaller electoral districts with a 
minimum of four seats and a maximum of seven. It's is said that the present model is not 
working, so we as a Council is in favour of the return of town councils which if the norm in 
every other E.U. country”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed 
by all.  

14.Sealing of Documents: 

On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the Members noted and 
approved the sealing of documents as submitted to the meeting. 

15.Correspondence and Communications: 

A  number  of  Members  of  the  Council  responded  to  a  number  of  the  replies  received  from 
various Government Department. 

  Correspondence from Department of Social Protection concerning training opportunities 

for customers while engaged with the JobPath service. 

  Acknowledgment from Private Secretary to Minister for Social Protection concerning 

Turas Nua. 

  Email from Minister Denis Naughten concerning a countrywide ban on smoky coal. 
  Correspondence from Private Secretary to Minister Michael Creed regarding the Sea 

Fisheries (Amendment) Bill 2017. 

  Correspondence from Private Secretary to Minister Charles Flanagan concerning Mr. 

Ibrahim Halawa. 

  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to Minister Leo Varadkar in connection with 

the possible re-instatement of the State Transition Pension 

  Acknowledgment from Private Secretary to Minister Simon Coveney in connection with 

Rebuilding Ireland. 

  Acknowledgment from Simon Harris, TD, concerning medicinal cannabis. 
  Correspondence from Department of Social Protection with regard to the State pension 

(transition). 

  Email from HSE with regard to St. Senan’s. 
  Acknowledgement from Helen McEntee, TD, regarding St. Senan’s.  
  Acknowledgment from Private Secretary to Minister Simon Coveney with regard to a 

referendum on the public ownership of water.  

  Details of phone call from Minister Coveney’s Office regarding motion 

16.Any Other Business:   

None 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.17 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
