County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 13th March, 2017 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. P. Kavanagh, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
M. Byrne; 
P. Breen; 
T. Dempsey;   
A. Connick; 
W. Fitzharris;  
M. Farrell; 
R. Ireton; 
D. Hynes; 
L. McDonald;  
G. Lawlor; 
M. Murphy; 
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 
D. Wadding;   

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe,   
J. Fleming  
W. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien; 
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

K. Codd-Nolan,   
K. Doyle, 
J. Hegarty,  
A. Kelly;  
BA Murphy,    
O. O’Connell; 
J. Sullivan; 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
M. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary; 

Apologies:   

Councillors J. O’Rourke; F. Staples. 

1.  Wexford Mental Health “ASK” Campaign: 

The Cathaoirleach welcomed the members of the “ASK” Campaign and other organisations 
including Community Minds, It’s Good to Talk, Lions Club, Marine Watch and others to the 
meeting.  Frank Staples Jnr and Sharon Pettit of the “ASK” Campaign made the following 
presentation as attached. 

Following the presentation the Members congratulated the Group on its presentation and 
campaign.  There was widespread support amongst the Members for the campaign.  
Councillors also raised the issue of rolling out the campaign to the overall County and were 
concerned that other groups involved, some of whom were present at the meeting, should be 
involved. 

It was further noted that mental health services in County Wexford need to be improved and 
that perhaps this group could act as an umbrella group for all of the groups involved. 

“The Chief Executive thanked the “ASK” Group for their presentation and advised the Members 
that he proposed to allocate some modest funding via the Communications budget to assist 
the campaign”.  He also stressed the importance of all the groups who would be required to 
engage and help in the campaign. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

The Cathaoirleach echoed these sentiments and advised the meeting that Mayor Frank 
Staples had been on radio giving details of his own personal experiences with depression and 
that this campaign will make a difference and should be helped by the Council. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. Tony Dempsey it was agreed that the 
Cathaoirleach should contact the HSE to seek an improvement in mental health services and 
to enquire from the HSE what is meant by appropriate mental health services in County 
Wexford.  This was agreed by all. 

2.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1County Council Meeting – 13th February, 2017. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  M.  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  T.  Dempsey  and  agreed  by 
all,  the  Council  approved  the  minutes  of  the  County  Council  Meeting  held  on  13th  February, 
2017.   

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their votes of sympathy to the following: 

  The family of Mick McGee, who was involved in the greyhound industry. 
  The O’Brien family of Bray who had lost 4 family members in a recent fire 
  The family of Pat Farrell, Wexford 
  The family of David Walsh who had been killed in Australia recently 
  The family of Michael Whelan, brother of Sean Whelan 
  The Fox family on the death of their mother Mai 
  The family of Mary Dempsey, sister of Eddie Doyle, Enniscorthy Municipal District 
  The family of Jack Barry, Irish Water Safety, Bunclody and former employee of Wexford 

Borough Council 

Congratulations 

The Members expressed their congratulations to the following: 

  All Staff in the LEO Office on the Enterprise Awards which were held recently 
  BrianCantwell, Bank of Ireland, Taghmon, who assisted with the Enterprise Awards 
  Wexford  Hurling  Team  and  their  Manager  Davy  Fitzgerald  on  the  promotion  into 

Division 1A 

  Lee Chin on his performance on “The Toughest Trade”  

3.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1.  Proposed disposal of land at 5 Bishops Park, Wexford to William and Linda Keeling 

On the proposal of Councillor M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien the Members 
agreed to the proposed disposal of land at 5 Bishops Park, Wexford, in accordance with the 
notice circulated.  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

4.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

4.1 LAC1611 – the development of the disused railway line, railway bridge and railway 
tunnel extending from Rosbercon, New Ross to Mountelliot as a cycle and pedestrian route.   

The Members noted the report of Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive dated 7th March, 2017. On the 
proposal of Cllr M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien the Members agreed and approved 
the development as outlined in the report. 

5.  Rates on Charitable Properties: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all with the 
exception of the 5 Sinn Fein Members, Cllrs. M. Farrell, A. Connick, D. Hynes and D. Wadding, 
the Members approved the report on Rates on Charitable Properties as submitted to the 
meeting. 

6.  Audit Committee – Report to Council: 

  2015 Accounts and associated Audit Report 
  Annual Report on activity of the Audit Committee during 2016  
  Audit Committee 2017 Work Programme 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. O’Brien seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all the Council 
approved the above documents as submitted to the meeting. 

7.  Proposed date for Refugee Intercultural and Awareness Training for Elected 

Members of Wexford County Council – 12 noon on 10th April 2017: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed by all it was agreed that Refugee Intercultural 
and Awareness Training for Elected Members of Wexford County Council will take place at 12 
noon on Monday 10th April, 2017. 

8.  National Planning Framework: 

Documents which were circulated at the meeting were presented by Mr. T. Larkin, Director of 
Services.  Mr. Larkin pointed out that the Planning Framework will replace the National Spatial 
Strategy.  He also noted that the closing date for submissions gave a very short timeframe in 
which to prepare the submission.  He also advised that in addition to the Council’s submission 
the views and concerns of the Council will be included in the Regional Assembly submission 
which is being prepared on behalf of the Chief Executives of the five Local Authorities in the 
region, Wexford, Waterford, Carlow, Kilkenny and Tipperary. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne it was agreed that further discussion in more detail is 
required about this process and he proposed that a Special Meeting be held to discuss same. 

The Members then discussed the report and advised that a number of issues were not 
included and it was agreed by the Director that those issues would be included.  The following 
are some of the issues raised: 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

  The development of Rosslare Europort post Brexit 
  The downgrading of Enniscorthy, New Ross and Gorey rail links to County Wexford 
  Village sewerage solutions required 
  Mental health issues 
  Second level education 
  Health services 
  Housing and affordable rates 
  Employment 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, advised that he would modify the document to reflect the 
views of the Council.  The document was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. P. 
Breen and agreed with the amendments put forward by the Council. 

9.  Date of Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council – 19.06.17 at 12 noon: 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne it was agreed that the Annual 
Meeting of Wexford County Council will take place on Monday 19th June, 2017 at 12 noon. 

10. Review of Corporate Plan 2015-2019: 

The Members noted the proposed changes to the objectives of the Corporate Plan 2015-2019 
as circulated.  On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by 
all the Review of the Corporate Plan 2015-2019 was approved. 

11. Annual Service Delivery Plans 2015/2016: 

The Members noted the Annual Service Delivery Plans 2015 and 2016 as circulated to the 
meeting.  On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty the Members noted 
and approved the Annual Service Delivery Plans 2015 and 2016 as circulated. 

A number of issues were raised arising from the plans including the following: 

  Road Safety 
  Dog Fouling 
  The preparation of a handbook for residents associations 
  The inspection of premises 
  Arrears of rent should be flagged as early as possible within two weeks of the rent 

arising 

  Taking Over of Estates - Mr. T. Larkin advised that he would prepare a further report 

on the taking in charge of estates for the next meeting of the Council. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

12. Performance Indicators 2015: 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed by all the 
Members approved the Performance Indicators for 2015 as circulated to the meeting. 

In addition to the items proposed in the report it was proposed that community and social 
housing should be a priority. 

Cllr. J. Hegarty advised that the roads performance indicators should be reviewed at the 
Transportation SPC.  He also advised that WCC should look at the waste services, the 3 bin 
services was important and we should talk to other County Councils who are more successful 
in these matters than Wexford. 

Private water should be discussed by the Water SPC, this was agreed by the meeting.   

Mr. E. Hore, advised the following: 

There  have  been  three  major  road  condition  surveys  carried  out  on  a  countrywide  basis  for 
non-national roads over the past 20 years; the 1995 and 2005 non-national needs studies and 
the 2011 regional road survey and study. 

In the 1995 survey County Wexford’s non-national roads in all categories, i.e., Regional, Local 
Primary, Local Secondary and Local Tertiary,  were ranked in the lowest grouping in terms of 
poorest condition i.e. amongst the worst roads in the country.   
In  the  2005  survey  counties Wexford  and  Donegal  were  the  only  two  counties  to  rank  in  the 
bottom  grouping  of  5  groups  in  all  four  road  categories  in  terms  of  roads  needing 
reconstruction, the most serious of road condition and costliest form of road repair. 
In the 2011 condition survey on regional roads County Wexford despite a 19.7% improvement 
between  2004  and  2011  was  ranked  worst  in  Ireland  in  terms  of  the  %  of  regional  road 
requiring  reconstruction  at  27.8%.  Only  two  other  counties  (Offaly  and  Mayo)  were  rated  at 
over 25%.    Some examples of how other “rural” counties fared in this road condition survey – 
all with road networks requiring less than 10% road reconstruction. 

                                 2.6%   (Louth)                               9.0%   (Limerick) 
                                 4.2%   (Monaghan)                

7.8%   (Cavan)  
8.6%   (Carlow)                              9.1%   (Kildare)  
8.4%   (Westmeath)                       6.7%   (Leitrim) 
8.9%   (Kilkenny)                            3.4%   (Longford) 

Yet all those counties receive the same level of funding as Wexford based on length of road 
and independent of the actual condition of the road.  

The  road  widths  in  County  Wexford,  specifically  the  widths  of  the  Local  Primary,  Local 
Secondary  and  Local Tertiary  are  also  wider  on  average  than  the  majority  of  the  same  road 
classifications  in  other  counties,  which  in  effect  “penalises”  Wexford  in  terms  of  national 
funding  based  solely  on  length  of  road.     The  surface  dressing  cycle  which  forms  the  basic 
level of maintenance and safety requirement has gone from the recommended 1 in 8 years to 
almost 1 in 40 years. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

Based on these facts the roads in Wexford must receive additional funding to reflect condition 
rather  than  just  length  of  road  if  major  structural  failure  of  the  non-national  network  in  the 
County is to be avoided. 

The  two  main  road  grants  are  the  restoration  improvement  and  the  restoration  maintenance 
grants.   Both  of  these  grants  are,  as  stated,  allocated  based  on  the  length  of  mileage  or 
kilometre  of  Regional  and  Local  Roads  within  each  county.  However  six  councils  receive 
additional funding based solely on the premise that they experience higher road traffic than the 
norm  and  weighting  factors  are  applied  to  the  funding  (length  of  road)  to  determine  the 
increased funding allocation. 

Council 
Dun Laoghaire/Rathdown County Council 
Fingal County Council 
South Dublin County Council 
Kildare County Council 
Louth County Council 
Meath County Council 
All other Councils 

Factor 
2.0 
1.5 
1.5 
1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
1.0 

Road condition should form a significant factor in the allocation of funding - road traffic is but a 
subset  of  road  condition.   Given  the  above  facts  I  would  like  to  make  the  strong  case  for 
Wexford roads to be included on the list of those counties with a weighting factor applied to the 
annual funding.  I would respectfully suggest that this factor be at the higher end of the scale 
for some years to come to offset the under-investment of many years past. 

County Wexford  can  never  arrive  at  a  situation  where  the  standard  of  non-national  road  can 
compare  with  even  the  average  standard  throughout  the  country  if  funding  based  on  road 
condition is not introduced.   

Indeed the gap between the standard of roads in County Wexford and the country in general 
will continue to widen given the significant underfunding of Wexford non-national roads.   

This  is fact  based  on  all  the  road  condition  surveys  carried  out  to  determine  the  state  of  the 
country’s rural  road  network.   It  is clear that  since  the  discrepancy  in  road  condition  was first 
scientifically highlighted in 1995, Wexford’s roads have not received the investment necessary 
to protect and improve this vital infrastructural asset.  

13. Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group was noted.  

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

14. Chief Executive’s Report: 

The Chief Executive’s Report for March 2017 was circulated to the meeting.  Questions raised 
by Councillors present were answered by Council Officials.  The issues raised included the 
following: 

  Culvert at Rosslare 
  Meeting of WCC on the Ferry 
  The rollout of the 850 anniversary of inviting the Normans to Ferns 
  The Wexford Ambassador Programme 
  The possibility of funding for public lighting at the Ring Road in New Ross 
  Rosslare Harbour/Europort 
  The repair leasing scheme 

15. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training: 

The County Secretary circulated a list of foreign travel and this was agreed by the Council on 
the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Moore. 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. O’Brien seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, the Members noted and 
approved the List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training as circulated to the meeting. 

16. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all the 
Members present the following minutes were noted and approved. 

16.1 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 11.01.17 
16.2 Gorey Municipal District 17.01.17 
16.3 Enniscorthy Municipal District 16.01.17 
16.4Borough District of Wexford 16.01.17 
16.5 Protocol Committee Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 16.01.17 
16.6 Twinning Committee Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 16.01.17 
16.7 Economic Development & Enterprise Meeting 23.01.17 

17. Notices of Motion: 

17.1 Cllr. M. Byrne: 

Smoky Fuels - Noting 

(i) the seriously damaging effects on health and the environment of the continued burning of 
smoky fuels; 
(ii) the motion carried by this Council in March 2015 seeking to prohibit the burning of smoky 
coals in the County; 
(iii) the announcement in October, 2015 by then Minister, Alan Kelly, of the Government's 
intention to proceed with a nationwide ban,  

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

Wexford County Council expresses its concern at the delays by Minister Denis Naughten and 
his Department in proceeding with this measure. This Council calls for the introduction of this 
ban within six months. 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by all. 

17.2 Cllr. M. Byrne: 

Climate Change Strategy 

Noting the motion carried by this Council in October, 2015, to undertake an audit of all our 
activities to minimise or eliminate their impact on Climate Change, this Council expresses its 
disappointment that no action has been taken to date on this matter and calls for it to be 
prioritised by the executive. Further, noting the executive's remarks at Council meetings on this 
issue over the past six months that the delay is due to the lack of a strategy by the Department 
of Climate Change, that in developing our own strategy that we highlight this failure on the part 
of the Department. 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. T. Dempsey and agreed by all. 

17.3 Cllr. J. Fleming: 

“That this Councils calls on the HSE to reinstate the proper title of 'Saint' on all it's ward names 
and signage  in Wexford General Hospital to reflect our heritage, tradition and history”. 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming seconded by Cllr. A. Kelly and agreed by all with the exception of 
Cllr. D. Wadding.  

17.4 Cllr. J. Moore: 

'WCC calls on Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine and the Oireachtas to, as a matter 
of urgency, withdraw the current Sea Fisheries Amendment Bill 2017 and immediately open 
consultation with the Irish Fishing Industry to review the implications of the current Bill for Irish 
Fishing and also the future implications for Brexit.' 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe and agreed by all with the exception 
of the 5 Sinn Fein Councillors. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

17.5 Cllr. D. Wadding: 

a.  To call on the Irish government to ratify, as soon as possible, the convention against 

trafficking in human organs which was adopted by the Council of Europe on 9th July 2014 in 
order to criminalise illegal organ transplantations.  The Irish Government has already 
signed this convention, but is yet to ratify it. 

b.  To call on the Oireachtas Foreign Affairs committee to follow through on the pledge made 
by the Oireachtas Sub Committee on Human Rights to “investigate to the maximum extent 
possible” persistent, credible reports of forced organ harvesting and other severe human 
rights abuses imposed on Falun Gong practitioners and other prisoners of conscience in 
China. 

c.  To call on the Chinese government to end its practice of forced live organ harvesting of 

prisoners of conscience and release all illegally detained Falun Gony practitioners in China. 

Proposed by Cllr. D. Wadding seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by all. 

17.6 Cllr. D. Wadding: 

“This Council calls on  government to acknowledge the role State collusion with the Church 
played in the horrors of the Tuam mother and baby home, to issue an immediate apology to all 
those affected and to carry out investigation into deaths at other similar facilities”. 

Proosed by Cllr. D. Wadding seconded by Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin and agreed by all.  

18. Sealing of Documents: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien the Members noted and 
approved the sealing of documents as submitted to the meeting. 

19. Correspondence and Communications: 

The Members noted the following correspondence:  

  Acknowledgement from the Office of Simon Coveney, TD, regarding HAP rules. 
  Acknowledgement from the office of Michael Creed, TD  
  Acknowledgement from the Office of Simon Coveney, TD, regarding planning 

permission for solar farms. 

  Letter from Dept of Social Protection regarding the free travel pass scheme 
  Acknowledgement from the Office of the Minister for Education and Skills regarding 

access to schools for children 

  Acknowledgment from the Office of the Minister for Education and Skills regarding 

St. Senan’s  Hospital 

  Acknowledgment from the Office of Minister Denis Naughten 
  Correspondence from Simon Harris, TD, regarding Orkambi 
  Correspondence from Chris Smith, Private Secretary to Minister Ross regarding the 

expansion of the M11/M50 

  Email from Simon Harris, TD, regarding “Vision for Change” 
  Email from Simon Harris, TD, regarding FreeStyle Libre 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.17 

20. Any Other Business:   

None. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
