Special County Council Meeting 28.09.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Thursday 28th September, 2017 – 10.00 a.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
P. Kavanagh; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen  
M. Roche; 
D. Wadding;   

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
W. Fitzharris;  
W. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien; 
M. Sheehan;  
O. Walsh; 

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe,   
J. Fleming  
A. Kelly;  
BA Murphy,    
O. O’Connell; 
F. Staples  
M. Whelan. 

K. Codd Nolan 
K. Doyle, 
R. Ireton; 
G. Lawlor  
M. Murphy;    
J. O’Rourke   
J. Sullivan; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance & ICT; 
Mr. S. Begley, A/Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary. 

Apologies:   

Cllr. D. Hynes; 
Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin; 

The Cathaoirleach welcomed the Members to the meeting which is convened to decide on the 
LPT Variation for 2018.  On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan seconded by Cllr. K. Doyle it 
was agreed to hold the meeting in committee to allow full and frank discussion.  

1.  Minutes of Corporate Policy Group/Budget Working Group 18.09.17: 

On the proposal of Councillor P. Kavanagh, seconded by Councillor J. Moore, the minutes 
of the CPG/Budget Working Group were adopted by the Council. 

The  Cathaoirleach  stated  that  the  Chief  Executive  Mr.  T.  Enright  would  make  a  brief 
statement to the meeting and that this would be followed by a presentation by Mr. T. Larkin, 
Director  of  Services.    The  Head  of  Finance  would  then  present  on  the  Budget  2018  – 
Strategy Discussion.  The Cathaoirleach also explained that the Press would be  invited to 
join the meeting before the vote on LPT. 

The Chief Executive advised that the purpose of the meeting was to set the LPT  Variation 
Rate for 2018 but that budget measures would also be discussed.  He highlighted a number 
of challenges facing County Wexford: 

  High  unemployment;  

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 28.09.17 

  17% of working people in Wexford had to leave the county to go to work every day. 
  Wexford also has some of the most socially disadvantaged areas in the country.  
  Wexford  was  exporting  its  young  people  to  other  centres  for  education  and 

employment. 

  The County has a dated tourism product which needs to be updated. 

There is now a unique chance to turn this situation around.  The County has a lot of assets 
but needs to make better use of those assets and this can be done by putting investment in 
place  to  move  projects  ahead  quickly.  However,  it  will  require  a  number  of  increases  in 
Budget 2018 to provide the necessary finance. 

The Chief Executive advised that Director. T. Larkin will make a presentation with regard to 
the  major  projects  currently  planned  or  in  progress  throughout  the  county.    While  he 
understood that Councillors will be expected to defend the budget increases in front of the 
general public, he insisted that increases are the right thing to do  to enable the county to 
make  significant  progress  on  the  projects  that  will  boost  County  Wexford’s  economy  and 
lead to increased job prospects for the county. 

He  had  no  doubt  that  County  Wexford  would  have  significant  job  announcements  in  the 
future  but  the  Council  needs  to  put  investment  in  place  quickly  to  keep  ahead  of  other 
counties.  Investment in these projects will place the county in a strong position to make a 
real difference and presents a once in a generation opportunity to improve the quality of life 
for the citizens of County Wexford.   

Mr.  T.  Larkin,  Director  of  Services,  then  delivered  a  comprehensive  presentation  on  the 
projects in progress at present as per the attached document.  He advised that employment 
creation is the Council’s main priority.   

The  Cathaoirleach  stated  that  the  Council  needs  to  have  the  vision  to  show  what  kind  of 
County we will have in 5 years time. 

Arising from the presentation a number of Councillors raised issues about a wide ranging 
number of subjects including the following: 

  An  economic  analysis  of  how  infrastructure  will  impact  on  the  Councils  economic 
programme.  The  Chief  Executive  noted  that  projects  will  be  brought  forward 
individually with analysis of their impact on the county. 

  The  marina  in  Wexford  Town  will  be  part  of  an  overall  package  of  development 
which will be primarily office and retail spaces but will require amenity areas as well 
It  was  also  requested  that  T.  Larkin’s  presentation  should  be  set  out  before  the 
general public  -  it  is  intended  that Town  Hall  style  meetings  would  be  held  in  each 
town to set out the Council’s vision to the general public. 

 

  Discussion also took place on the cost to the Council in providing the infrastructure 

at the Innovation Centre in Gorey. 

  The link between economic development and housing was also emphasised 
  The Chief Executive advised that the Council was considering a low cost mortgage 

package for people on lower incomes 

  The hope generated by the programme and the need for urban renewal in the town 

centres. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Budget 2018 – Strategy Discussion (In-Committee): 

Special County Council Meeting 28.09.17 

Ms.  A.  O’Neill,  Head  of  Finance  &  ICT,  then  delivered  the  attached  presentation  outlining 
the  budget  strategy  set  out  in  the  document  circulated  to  members  and  discussed  by  the 
Cross  Party/CPG  meeting.    She  gave  an  overview  of  the  matters discussed  at  the  Cross 
Party  Meeting  and  set  out  the  financial  considerations  to  be  taken  into  account  for  2018.  
She advised that the LPT variation cannot be seen in isolation and that she would advise 
Members of a number of other issues that would form the basis of the 2018 Budget.   

The Head of Finance also advised that the Council had gone out to public consultation with 
regard to the LPT variation and had received 3 submissions which had been notified to the 
Members for their consideration in respect of the decision on the LPT rate for 2018. 

The Head of Finance recommended a 10% increase in the LPT Variation rate for 2018.  

She also made a number of other proposals: 

Rates  on  vacant  premises:  a  90%  refund/relief  scheme  to  replace  the  100%  scheme 
current in place is recommended where sufficient evidence is provided to confirm efforts to 
Lease/Sell the property. 

General Municipal Allocation (GMA): Maintain GMA levels at the  2017 adopted levels at 
a minimum and consider increase where additional income is available. 

Rates  Harmonisation:  The  Head  of  Finance  gave  a  detailed  presentation  with  regard  to 
the  lack  of  sustainability  of  rates  harmonisation  at  an  annual  movement  of  2.9%  and  put 
forward  proposals  for  the  acceleration  of  the  rates  harmonisation  process  including  a 
Special Rates Incentive Scheme (SRIS) which will ease the harmonisation proposal for the 
two  remaining  former  town  rating  areas,  Enniscorthy  and  New  Ross.    Full  harmonisation 
will allow the council to consider a rate increase for the whole County.   

Base Rate: Increase the base ARV by 3% from 71.52 to 73.67.   

Following  the  presentation  a  wide  ranging  discussion  took  place  with  regard  to  the  topics 
raised.    The  Cathaoirleach  complimented  both  the  Head  of  Finance  and  Mr. T.  Larkin  on 
their presentations and this was echoed by a number of the Members. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that there is only one decision to be taken today which was the 
adoption  of  the  variation  rate  for  the  LPT.    A  decision  in  principle  regarding  the  other 
matters was required to assist the framing of the overall budget. 

Among  the  matters  raised  was  that  the  proposed  investment  programme  for  the  county 
needs to be widely communicated to the general public.   

Members raised the issue of progress on the investment programme over the coming years 
and asked that quarterly progress reports be made to the Council.  They emphasised that If 
money and staff are made available to fund the programme, members expected a return in 
the form of results on the ground over the next 2 years 

Particular  emphasis was  placed  on  the  need  for large  scale  investment  in  New  Ross  and 
Enniscorthy.    Members  felt  that  both  towns  were  falling  behind  Wexford  and  Gorey  and 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 28.09.17 

they  both  required  urgent  investment  to  stem  the  decline.  The  need  for  ambition  and  a 
vision for the County were also discussed. 

A number of Members raised concerns that the proposed increases may have a deleterious 
effect  on  a  number of  companies  and  retail businesses  in  the  county,  given  that  they  are 
operating on very low margins.   

A  number  of  Councillors  advised  that  they  would  not  be  in  a  position  to  vote  for  the 
proposed  LPT  increase  and  set  out  the  difficulties faced  by  small  businesses  in Wexford, 
including problems with planning and the Rates Incentive Scheme.   Reference was made 
to  the  reduction  of  household  income  throughout  the  county  and  that  the  proposed 
increases could be quite expensive when added together. 

Following an assertion that the Council was doing nothing for small business in the county, 
the Chief Executive stated that he profoundly disagreed with this assertion and pointed to 
the  work  being  carried  out  by  the  Local  Enterprise  Office  and  the  office  space  recently 
made available for small business in the Hatch Lab in Gorey.  

A number of Members spoke of giving hope to young people that they will be able to find 
good  employment  in  County  Wexford.    Many  Members  also  referred  to  the  need  for 
ambition and a vision for the county and the need for the programme to be successful.   

Among other issues raised were the following: 

Dealing with some of the projects on a phased basis. 
The proportion of the increase which would be directed to the GMA.   
The need to communicate clearly with the Districts in relation to projects being carried out 
in their area.   
Change in the role of enterprise in the community.   
The cutting of the block grant since 2013 and discounts to rate payers were also highlighted 
as issues as to why the Council’s income has fallen. 
High  unemployment  rate  in  County  Wexford  which  stands  at  2.9%  above  the  national 
average.  
People spending power is also at an all time low. 
Criticism of the LPT which is seen as an aggressive tax. 
Increases  in  the  LPT  with  regard  to  2019  –  The  Chief  Executive  agreed  that  no  further 
increases  will  be  sought  next  year  but  that  the  Council  would  want  to  hold  the  10%  LPT 
proposed for 2018 in 2019 and also hold the rate increase of 3% in 2019.  

Prior  to  the  vote  the  Chief  Executive  thanked  Mr.  T.  Larkin,  Director  of  Services  for  his 
presentation  and  agreed  that  the  level  of  communication  on  the  Council’s  Investment 
programme  needs  to  be  improved.  He  highlighted  the  vision  underlying  the  Programme  - 
vision requires foresight and the ability to take risk.  

To  achieve  the  vision  set  out  in  the  Programme,  the  County  needs  to  generate  extra 
income - an extra €600,000 income allows Wexford County Council to borrow in the region 
of €10m over a 20 year period at low fixed rates.  The Chief Executive advised that he had 
held a meeting yesterday with the four Chambers of Commerce in the county and that they 
fully supported the increase in rates to achieve the items set out in the Programme. 

The Council went into public session prior to the vote on LPT Variation. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 28.09.17 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne a motion to increase the 
LPT by 10%,  

a second proposal by Cllr. J. Mythen seconded by Cllr. A. Kelly was to decrease the LPT by 
3%   and  

a third motion by Cllr. D. Wadding was to decrease the LPT by 15%.   

A vote was taken on the first proposal to increase the LPT by 10% i.e. a 5% increase on the 
LPT  agreed  in  2017  for  the  purposes  of  investment  for  job  creation  opportunities  and  to 
provide a new dynamic in the County.   

Following a roll call the motion was adopted by 21 voting in favour and 9 against as follows: 

Councillors:  P. Breen, M. Byrne, G. Carthy, K. Codd Nolan, T. Dempsey, A. Donohoe, K. 
Doyle,  M.  Farrell,  W.  Fitzharris,  J.  Hegarty,  R.  Ireton,  P.  Kavanagh,  W.  Kavanagh,  G. 
Lawlor, J. Moore, B.A. Murphy, M. Murphy, L. O’Brien, M. Sheehan, F. Staples, O. Walsh. 

Those  voting  against:  Councillors:  A.  Connick,  A.  Kelly,  L.  McDonald,  J.  Mythen,  O. 
O’Connell, M. Roche, J. Sullivan, D. Wadding, M. Whelan. 

Councillor  not  in  attendance  for  vote  –  Councillors  J.  Fleming,  D.  Hynes,  J.  O’Rourke,  F. 
ÓSúilleabháin. 

The  Cathaoirleach  then  brought  the  meeting  to  a  conclusion  and  stated  that  this  was  the 
start of a couple of difficult months for Councillors but that a leap of faith is required to put 
forward  the  vision  set  out  in  the  Programme.    It  is  important  that  the  Councillors  work 
together to achieve the plan and while it is a difficult decision he is proud to be a Councillor 
on the day when this proposal has been adopted. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
