County Council Meeting 12.04.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 12 April, 2021 (via MS TEAMS) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Ger Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN 

FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CODD 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD  SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

STAPLES 

 FRANK 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WALSH 

OLIVER 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 
Ms. L. Lacey, Management Accountant 
Mr. S. Begley, Financial Accountant 

Oireachtas Members:  

Deputy Verona Murphy 

Public:  

A number of members of the public attended remotely 

Apologies: 

Cllr. Bridín Murphy 

Page 1 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.04.21 

1. 

Presentation from Institute of Technology, Carlow 

The following representatives of the Institute of Technology Carlow attended the meeting: 

•  Dr. Patricia Mulcahy, President,  
•  Mr. John Moore, Chairman of the Governing Body 
•  Mr. Cormac O’Toole, Vice-President for Corporate Affairs 
•  Mr. Keith Williams, Capital Project Manager 
•  Dr. Karen Hennessy, Head of Wexford Campus 
•  Ms. Janette Davies, Deputy Head of Wexford Campus 

Dr. Mulcahy and her team outlined proposals by the Institute of Technology to develop a 
purpose-built Institute of Technology Carlow campus in Wexford Town, which will expand 
and solidify the existing IT facilities currently based in St. Peter’s College, Wexford. 

Almost 1000 students currently attend IT Carlow’s Wexford campus – 70% of these students 
are studying a Level 8 Qualification. The Institute’s ambitions to expand current educational 
services at the Wexford campus is constrained by the size and location of that campus. 

It is hoped to achieve joint technological university status for Institute of Technology Carlow 
and Institute of Technology Carlow by January 2021. The new university will be one of five 
such  Technological  Universities  recommended  for  development  by  the  Joint  Oireachtas 
Committee on Education. 

Phase 1 of the Wexford campus will develop over a number of years and will cater for approx. 
2500  students.    The  required  investment  may  be  provided  either  directly  or  via  a  Public 
Private Partnership. It is hoped to complete site acquisition by end Q3 2021, followed by an 
estimated 2-year process of design, procurement and planning, and then construction phase 
is likely to begin. 

The  approval of the Minister  for  Education  and  that  of  the  Higher  Education  Authority is 
required to allow the development of the proposed new Wexford Campus to proceed. 

Dr.  Mulcahy  concluded  her  PowerPoint  presentation  by  acknowledging  the  continuing 
support of Wexford County Council for Institute of Technology Carlow, both in terms of the 
current campus at St. Peter’s College and the proposals for development of a proposed new 
Wexford campus. 

The Cathaoirleach and Members thanked Dr Mulcahy and her team for their presentation 
and assured them of the Council’s continued support for this ambitious and highly significant 
project in the months and years ahead. 

Page 2 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.04.21 

Chief Executive Tom Enright pointed out that Wexford was the largest county in the South 
East  and  the  county  had  a  clear  and  proven  need  for  such  third-level  facilities.  He  also 
pointed to  the  economic  benefits  that would  accrue to  the  county  as  a result  of  linkages 
between business and the proposed third level facility.  

The  Chief  Executive  concluded  by  wishing  the  Institute  of  Technology  Carlow  continued 
success in their operation of third level education facilities in Wexford. He also paid tribute 
to Director of Services Tony Larkin for his on-going work in helping IT Carlow to locate and 
acquire a suitable site for its proposed new Wexford campus. 

The representatives of Institute of Technology Carlow then withdrew. 

2.  

Votes of Sympathy: 

The County Secretary reminded the members of their decision, when proposing a Vote of 
Sympathy,  to  forward  full  details  of  deceased  persons,  including  contact  details  of  the 
representatives of the deceased, to the County Secretary. 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

o  Mr. Martin Wickham, former employee, Wexford County Council 
o  Mrs. Monica Keeling, Wexford Town 
o  Mrs. Marie Lynch, Enniscorthy 
o  Mrs. Christina Breen, Enniscorthy 
o  Mr. John Davis, former employee, Wexford County Council 
o  Ms. Liz Moloney, Wexford Town 
o  Mr. Terence (Terry) Moran, Wexford Town 
o  Mr. Eugene Byrne, Wexford (late of Portlaoise, Co. Laois),  
o  Ms. Grace O’Mahony, New Ross 
o  Ms. Helen O’Reilly, New Ross 

The Council congratulated the following: 

o  Mr.  Festy  Ebosele,  former  Moyne  Rangers  player  and  Enniscorthy  native,  who 

recently made his debut  for Derby County  

o  Dr Paddy Prendegast, as he approaches the end of his  decade-long provostship at 

Trinity College 

o  Mr. Paul Nolan, Horse Trainer, following his recent Cheltenham success 
o  Wexford  Jockey  Mr.  Tom  O’Brien  following  winning  Ryanair  Stayers  Hurdle  at 

Aintree. 

o  Wexford  jockey  Sean  O’Keeffe,  following  his  9th  place  in  the  2021  Aintree  Grand 

National 

o  Mr. Tadhg Furlong, Rugby Player and Wexford Ambassador, on being nominated for 

the prestigious 2021 EPCR European Player of the Year award 

o  Ms. Maria Nolan, Enniscorthy, following the launch of her book “ Shadow of the Hill”. 
o  All involved in the Council’s recent very successful Active Travel funding application 

Page 3 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.04.21 

o  Jockey  Ms.  Rachel  Blackmore,  following  her  remarkable  success  at  the  recent 

Cheltenham Racing Festival 

o  Bridgetown College TY student Lauren Williams, on being placed first in the Senior 

Category of the Wexford Student Enterprise Awards. 

o  The three Wexford businesses who were recently awarded licences by the Borough 

District of Wexford to trade on Wexford Quays 

o  The HSE, for its excellent Covid-19 testing turnaround times  

2. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1  

County Council Meeting – 8th March, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor the Council resolved 
to adopt the above Minutes. 

Matters Arising: 

The following amendments to the Minutes were agreed: 

•  Votes of Congratulations - Mahon Family should read Mahoney Family 
• 

Item 13.1 - Cllr. Michael Whelan’s name was noted twice.  

3. 

Proposed Disposal of land - Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001 

3.1 

Proposed disposal of a property at Portersgate, Fethard On Sea, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden and agreed by all, it 
was resolved to dispose of the above lands in accordance with the terms of the 
Section 183 Notice as circulated 

3.2  

Proposed intention to lease a plot of land at Marshmeadows, New Ross, Co. 
Wexford.  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed by all, 
it was resolved to lease the above lands in accordance with the terms of the Section 
183 Notice as circulated. 

4. 

Agreements between Wexford County Council and  (a) Tipperary County Council and (b) 
Kilkenny  County  Council  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  85  of  the  Local 
Government Act 2001 for the supply of a web-based GPS Vehicle Tracking System 

On consideration of the report of Mr. N. O’Driscoll, SE, and following discussion with Mr. E. 
Hore, DoS, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed by 
all, it was resolved to enter into Section 85 Agreements with Tipperary County Council and 
with Kilkenny County Council as set out above. 

Page 4 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  

Draft County Development Plan – Proposed Schedule of Meetings 

County Council Meeting 12.04.21 

It was agreed to hold a Special Meeting of Wexford County Council on Monday 26 April to 
consider the Draft County Wexford Development Plan 2021-2027 and the Report of the 
Chief Executive on the submissions received. 

It was also agreed to hold a series of meetings between smaller groups of members of the 
Council and relevant staff from the Planning Department after the meeting on 26 April, to 
enable a more robust discussion and allow detailed consideration of the Draft County 
Wexford Development Plan 2021-2027 and the accompanying Report of the Chief 
Executive. 

The Members requested that the Council write to Mr. Darragh O’Brien, TD, Minister for 
Housing, Local Government & Heritage to seek an extension of the time period available to 
Wexford County Council to complete the process of reviewing the Development Plan.  

A number of Members expressed a desire to seek legal advice in relation to the review 
process. In response, the Chief Executive directed that any requests for legal advice should 
be forwarded to Mr. T. Larkin. DoS, outlining the exact nature of the particular issue in 
respect of which legal advice was to be sought. 

The Chief Executive advised that he proposed to hold a series of meetings with the Council 
in political party / non-party / smaller party groupings to outline progress made by the 
Council to date in its delivery of significant capital projects. It was agreed to hold these 
meetings on the mornings of Thursday 22 and Friday 23 April, 2021. 

6. 

Consideration of Annual Financial Statement 2020 and AFS Report 

Ms. A. O’Neill Head of Finance presented the pre-audit Annual Financial Statement 2000 
and accompanying Chief Executive’s report, which highlighted the main elements of the 
AFS and summarized the Council’s financial position at the end of 2020. 

The Chief Executive’s report included details of additional expenditure incurred in the 
period to 31/12/20. On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, and 
agreed by all, the Members resolved to approve this additional expenditure in accordance 
with Section 104 of the Local Government Act 2000 (as amended) 

Ms. O Neill responded to the Members queries on the AFS and accompanying Report. 

7. 

Ratification of Mr. James Brennan as Agriculture / Farming Representative to the Climate 
Change, Environment, and Biodiversity SPC replacing Mr. Ned Lyng 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by all, the Council 
resolved to appoint Mr. Brennan to the Climate Change, Environment, and Biodiversity SPC 
as outlined above. 

Page 5 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.04.21 

8. 

Nomination of Elected Member to Wexford Comhairle na nÓg 

Following consideration of the report of A/DoS Ms. Carolyne Godkin, and on the proposal 
of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. Farrell and agreed by all, the members resolved to 
nominate the Cathaoirleach of the day to Wexford Comhairle na nÓg. 

9. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Members raised a number of matters which were responded to the Chief Executive 
and the respective Directors of Service, including the following: 

•  Provision of Motor Home facilities – Council broadly supportive of any private 

applications 

•  Appointment of Heritage Officer – to be complete in coming months 
•  Enterprise Centre John St New Ross – CPO under preparation 

It being 5.30pm, and on the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed 
by all, Standing Orders were suspended to allow the meeting to continue until 6.00pm. 

•  Financial support to Charter Boat Industry – Council waiving harbour fees for 2021 
•  Electric charging points in private estates – planning conditions to be applied 
•  Advancement of affordable housing scheme in Ramsfort Gorey – road access being 
developed to facilitate the proposed development – letters inviting applications to 
be submitted within one month 

•  Courtown Swimming Pool – expected to be open for coming summer season 
•  Support to Festivals and Events 2021 – budget provisions in place 
•  Re-development of High Hill New Ross – tenders currently under assessment 
•  Rosslare to Waterford Greenway – documents to be brought to Planning 

submission stage 

•  Litter Fines – fines may be struck out for variety of reasons 
•  Active Travel grants – award deciding criteria outlined 
•  Homeless statistics – to be included in future CE Reports 

It being 6.00pm, and on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed 
by all, Standing Orders were suspended to allow the meeting to continue and the consideration of 
the Chief Executive’s Report to be completed 

•  Murphy Floods Hotel Enniscorthy – engagement has taken place between Council 

and owners to improve site appearance and address dereliction  

•  Provision of affordable housing in each Municipal District 
•  Accessibility issues at Vinegar Hill – constrained by archaeological issues 
•  Appointment of Greenway Development Officer - imminent 
•  Casual Trading in Municipal Districts – review of Casual Trading Byelaws underway 
•  Commencement of construction on capital projects – all construction expected to 

re-commence within 2/3 weeks 

Page 6 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.04.21 

The review and discussion of the Chief Executive’s Report being complete, the Cathaoirleach 
thanked all for their attendance and closed the meeting 

Daingithe ar an           lá de  Bealtaine, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr. Ger Carthy 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
David Minogue 
County Secretary 

Page 7 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
