County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 10th March 2025 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Ger Carthy, Leas Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Forde  

Tom 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Barron 

Boland 

Breen 

Browne 

Codd 

Vicky 

Nicky 

Pip 
(online) 
Aidan 
(online) 
Jim 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Rourke 

Kehoe 

Pat 

Owens 

Kelly 

Kenny 

Laffan 

Leonard 

Shannon 

Donal 

Sheehan 

Garry 

Staples 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

McDonald 

Darragh 

Staples 

John 
(online) 
Jackser 

Raymond 
(online) 
Michael 

Frank  

Robbie 

Doyle 

Craig 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Sullivan 

Joe 

Dwyer 

Farrell 

John 
(online) 
Mary 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Walsh 

Walsh 

Catherine  

Oliver 

Fleming 

John 

Murphy 

Marty 

Officials: 

Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. S. Howell, A/Director of Services 
Ms. L. Lacey, Director of Finance 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: There were no apologies recorded. 

Page 1 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Leas Cathaoirleach Cllr. G. Carthy welcomed the media, staff, and Councillors online. Cllr. Carthy 
welcomed the students and staff of St. Aidan’s National School who were present in the Chamber. 
Cllr. B.A. Murphy welcomed the seven students from St. Aidan’s National School who were elected 
in their school using proportional representation.  

County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Leas Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of Clem Daly, former employee. 
•  The family of Patrick Nacey, former employee. 
•  The family of Eileen O'Sullivan, (née Gibbons) mother of Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin, TD. 
•  The family of Michael Daly, former employee (Housing Drawing Office) and uncle of 

Michael Lonergan, Motor Tax Dept. 

•  The family of Sean Walsh, Horndon-on-the- Hill, Essex and formerly, Enniscorthy, Wexford. 
•  The family of Marguerite Bierney (née Roche), Beechwood, Assagart, Foulksmills, Wexford. 

Congratulations: 

Cllr.’s M. Sheehan and P. Barden congratulated Aidan O’Brien on his recent retirement from Good 
Counsel College. 
Cllr.’s M. Sheehan and J. Fleming congratulated Nicky Haberlin who was named as the national 
recipient of the Volunteers in Sport Award for County Wexford.  
Cllr. M. Sheehan congratulated Cumas Integrate Dance Group for their success in the Aontas star 
awards. 
Cllr. M. Sheehan congratulated all Wexford restaurants who were successful at the recent 
Restaurant Association of Ireland awards.  
Cllr.’s J. Fleming and P. Barden congratulated the Wexford footballers on their promotion to 
Division 3 of the Allianz League. 
Cllr. J. Codd congratulated Conor and Nathan Doyle on winning the U17 doubles All Ireland 
handball championship. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1  County Council Meeting 10th February, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan the Council resolved to 
confirm the minutes of the County Council Meeting on 10th February, 2025. 

Matters Arising: 
Cllr. T. Forde sought a commitment that more senior officials will attend Municipal District 
meetings. 

Cllr. T. Forde requested that information be provided to all Councillors outlining the 
process involved in relation to the provision of IPAS centres and Wexford County Council’s 
involvement in the process. 

Page 2 of 12 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

Cllr. J. Owens requested that the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage be 
invited to a meeting of Wexford County Council. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan requested that the CEO of the HSE Bernard Gloster and David 
McRedmond, CEO of An Post be invited to a meeting of Wexford County Council. Leas 
Cathaoirleach Cllr. G. Carthy asked that Cllr. Sheehan keep the members of the Regional 
Health Forum briefed in relation to any issues he has with the HSE as they are best placed 
to raise these concerns at the Regional Health Forum. 

Cllr. L. Kelly enquired if Wexford County Council has reached out to ESB Networks in 
relation to a vulnerability assessment of the network. Cllr. J. Codd raised concerns in 
relation to the ESB network in Bannow and the number of outages. 

2.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001 : 

2.1 Intention to lease property at Caislean an Dinigh, Carrig on Bannow, Co. Wexford 
 On the proposal of Cllr. J. Codd, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien the Council resolved to lease 
property at Caislean an Dinigh, Carrig on Bannow, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3. 

Wexford County Council Climate Action Plan (2024 – 2029) – Implementation Report 
2024 

Mr. E. Hore outlined that this is the first progress report on the Wexford County Council 
Local Authority Climate Action Plan 2024-2029. The plan was adopted by the elected 
members in February 2024 and published in March 2024. This progress report reflects the 
plan implementation period from February 2024 to December 2024. The Members noted 
the Wexford County Council Climate Action Plan (2024 – 2029) – Implementation Report 
2024. 

Mr. E. Hore responded to a wide range of queries from the Elected Members regarding the 
following: 

•  Wexford County Council’s reliance on OPW funding for coastal erosion works and if 

there is a commitment to provide the funding? 

•  The need to adapt to projected increases in rainfall of 9% in the east of the country. 
•  Some examples of the thirty-seven measures not yet implemented. 
•  Dissatisfaction expressed at a cut in storm related damage funding for roads. 
•  View expressed that Ireland should not pay any fines in relation to not reaching our 

climate targets. 

•  Request that the flood relief scheme for Enniscorthy be progressed. 

4. 

Nomination to County Heritage Forum 

Ms. L. Hore informed the Councillors that a new County Heritage Forum is to be 
established in line with national Heritage Council policy. Ms. Hore advised that she is 
seeking one nomination from the Planning and Building Control SPC Councillor 
membership and two further nominations from the full Council.  

Page 3 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh the Council resolved to 
appoint Cllr. J. Fleming as the Planning and Building Control SPC representative on the 
County Heritage Forum.  

The following Councillors were nominated for the remaining two appointments: 

Cllr. J. Sullivan on the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan. 
Cllr. L. Kelly on the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens. 
Cllr. P. Kehoe on the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe. 
Cllr. J. Dwyer on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd. 

On a show of hands, Cllr. J. Sullivan and Cllr. P. Kehoe were appointed to the County 
Heritage Forum. 

5. 

Invitation to London Wexford Association 71st Annual Dinner Dance on 12th April, 2025 

Mr. M. Drea circulated an invitation for the chairs of the Municipal Districts and the 
Cathaoirleach to attend the 71st Annual Dinner Dance of the London Wexford Association 
on 12th April, 2025. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens, the Council resolved to 
approve a delegation to travel to the 71st Annual Dinner Dance of the London Wexford 
Association. 

6. 

Proposed Amendments to Standing Orders 

Mr. M. Drea circulated a memo outlining proposed changes to Standing Order No.’s 29, 55, 
56, 61, and 83. 

Cllr.’s A.R. O’Brien, T. Forde, and J. Codd expressed their opposition to the amendment of 
Standing Order no. 29 which proposed to reduce the amount of time any Councillor can 
speak on an agenda item to three minutes. Cllr.’s B.A. Murphy, M. Farrell, and M. Sheehan 
expressed their support for the amendment. 

Cllr. P. Kavanagh felt the proposed amendment to Standing Order no. 83 dealing with a 
non-party casual vacancy was excessive and custom and practice can be relied upon. Cllr.’s 
J. Owens, B.A. Murphy, and M. Sheehan spoke in favour of the proposed amendment. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, and after a show of hands, 
the Council resolved to adopt the proposed changes to Standing Order No.’s 29, 55, 56, 61, 
and 83, as circulated. The approved wording of Standing Order No.’s 29, 55, 56, 61, and 83 
is as follows: 

Except with the permission of the Chair no member shall address the Council for 

29. 
more than 3 minutes.   A member may speak once upon any item on the Agenda or on any 
motion except a motion which is to be put without debate.   The proposer of a motion has 

Page 4 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the right to reply whilst the motion remains before the Chair and when the proposer 
replies the debate on the motion is closed. 

County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

55. 
• SPC 1: 
• SPC 2: 
• SPC 3: 
• SPC 4: 
• SPC 5: 
• SPC 6: 

The Strategic Policy Committees of the Council shall be: 

Economic Development & Enterprise  
Transportation & Water Services  
Housing 
Community & Rural Affairs 
Climate Change, Environment and Biodiversity 
Planning & Building Control 

The Economic Development and Enterprise Strategic Policy Committee (SPC) shall 

56. 
consist of 17 members, 9 of whom shall be members of the Council, and 8 to be nominated 
by sectoral, community and other interest groups throughout the County of Wexford, such 
sectoral, community and other interest groups having first been selected by the Council in 
accordance with the relevant guidelines. 
6 members shall constitute a quorum. 
The Transportation and Water Services Strategic Policy Committee (SPC) shall consist of 13 
members, 7 of whom shall be members of the Council, and 6 to be nominated by sectoral, 
community and other interest groups throughout the County of Wexford, such sectoral, 
community and other interest groups having first been selected by the Council in 
accordance with the relevant guidelines. 
5 members shall constitute a quorum. 
The Housing Strategic Policy Committee (SPC) shall consist of 13 members, 8 of whom shall 
be members of the Council, and 5 to be nominated by sectoral, community and other 
interest groups throughout the County of Wexford, such sectoral, community and other 
interest groups having first been selected by the Council in accordance with the relevant 
guidelines. 
5 members shall constitute a quorum. 
The Community & Rural Affairs Strategic Policy Committee (SPC) shall consist of 11 
members, 6 of whom shall be members of the Council, and 5 to be nominated by sectoral, 
community and other interest groups throughout the County of Wexford, such sectoral, 
community and other interest groups having first been selected by the Council in 
accordance with the relevant guidelines. 
4 members shall constitute a quorum. 
The Climate Change, Biodiversity and Environment Strategic Policy Committee (SPC) shall 
consist of 17 members, 9 of whom shall be members of the Council, and 8 to be nominated 
by sectoral, community and other interest groups throughout the County of Wexford, such 
sectoral, community and other interest groups having first been selected by the Council in 
accordance with the relevant guidelines. 
6 members shall constitute a quorum. 
The Planning and Building Control Strategic Policy Committee (SPC) shall consist of 14 
members, 7 of whom shall be members of the Council, and 7 to be nominated by sectoral, 
community and other interest groups throughout the County of Wexford, such sectoral, 
community and other interest groups having first been selected by the Council in 
accordance with the relevant guidelines. 
5 members shall constitute a quorum. 

Page 5 of 12 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

The Strategic Policy Committees shall be appointed as soon as possible after a local 
election and the members shall hold office for the period of the life of the Council 
appointing them.  

Each Strategic Policy Committee shall meet as often as required, and at least 4 

61. 
times a year, to deal with the business assigned to it.  

A casual vacancy shall be filled in accordance with Section 19 of the Local                                      

83. 
         Government Act 2001. 
The following procedures shall apply when a casual vacancy arises in the membership of 
the Council in respect of a non-party Councillor: 

a)  Following an election at any time during the life of that Council, each Councillor elected as 
a non-party Councillor shall lodge with the Meetings’ Administrator a sealed envelope 
(signed and dated by the Councillor concerned) containing a list of up to six names who 
shall be entitled to be co-opted to the Council in the event of a casual vacancy caused by 
that Councillor. The list of names shall show a clear preference for the order of nomination, 
i.e., 1, 2, 3 etc. The envelope shall also contain a signed form of consent to the nomination 
from each person so nominated and a declaration from each person so nominated that 
they were not, at the time of the election, and are not at the time of nomination a member 
of any registered political party.  The nomination date shall be the date on which the 
sealed envelope is received by the Meetings’ Administrator and said date will be marked 
on the sealed envelope by the Meetings’ Administrator.  A person shall not be a valid 
nominee if their consent and declaration is not provided in the sealed envelope at the date 
of nomination. 

b)  Each elected non-party Councillor shall be entitled, having made an initial nomination as 
referred to in (a) above, to submit revised nominations at any time during the life of the 
Council and any such revisions must be notified in writing to the Meetings’ Administrator 
and a fresh sealed envelope, signed by the Councillor concerned (to include the signed 
form of consent and declaration of the nominees) and clearly dated shall be lodged with 
the Meetings’ Administrator. The envelope containing the previous nomination(s) shall be 
returned to the Councillor concerned by the Meetings’ Administrator. Once revised 
nominations are received by the Meetings’ Administrator any earlier nominations become 
invalid. 

c)  To be eligible for consideration to fill a casual vacancy the person nominated shall not have 
been a member of any registered political party at the date of the election, at the date of 
nomination, at the date the casual vacancy arises or at the date the casual vacancy is being 
filled.  In the event of a nominated person becoming a member of a registered political 
party after the election date or after the nomination date but prior to the casual vacancy 
arising or being filled, he/she shall not be eligible to fill the said casual vacancy.  A 
nominated person shall not be eligible for consideration to fill a casual vacancy unless (on 
or after the date of the casual vacancy arising) he/she has submitted his/her consent in 
writing to being co-opted to fill the casual vacancy and submitted a declaration that he/she 
has not been at the election date and nomination date a member of a registered political 
party and that he/she meets the above eligibility requirements.  

d)  The person proposed for co-option to fill the casual vacancy shall be the first valid nominee 
so nominated in the order of preference appearing on the list of nominees(s) contained in 
the sealed envelope submitted by the elected non-party Councillor, who has furnished the 
consent and statutory declaration referred to in (c) above. 

Page 6 of 12 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

f) 

e)  In the event of a casual vacancy arising in respect of a person co-opted in accordance with 
the above procedure the vacancy shall be filled by selecting the next valid nominee in the 
order of preference appearing on the list of nominees(s) contained in the most recent 
sealed envelope provided to the Meetings’ Administrator by the elected non-party 
Councillor prior to the casual vacancy arising. 
In the event of an elected non-party Councillor failing or refusing to submit nomination(s) 
in accordance with this Standing Order or where there are no remaining valid nominees of 
said elected non-party Councillor, as referred to at (c) above, a casual vacancy arising shall 
be filled by resolution of the Council from amongst persons meeting the requirements to 
be a valid nominee as set out at (c) above. In the event of two or more valid nominees 
being proposed and seconded the selection of the person to be co-opted shall be in the 
same manner as the method used for the election of Cathaoirleach as set out in Section 37 
Local Government Act 2001. The provisions in paragraphs (a) to (f) above shall apply 
regardless of whether or not a Councillor elected as a non-party Councillor has affiliated to 
a registered political party since the date of his/her election. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by. Cllr. L. McDonald the following addition 
was proposed to Standing Orders: 

“In the wording of any Notice of Motion, the name of any Minister shall not be included. 
Instead, the appropriate title of the Minister shall be used. This applies to all references 
within the motion, and where applicable, the full title, such as The Minister for 
[Department], or The Minister of State for [Department] must be used, ensuring 
consistency and formality in the motion’s language.” 

Cllr. A. Donohoe proposed that this addition to Standing Orders be referred to the Protocol 
Committee which was agreed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy. 

7. 

Annual Service Delivery Plan 2024- Final Progress Report 

Ms. A. Byrne gave an outline of the content of the final progress report of the 2024 Annual 
Service Delivery Plan. The Council noted the report, as circulated. 

8. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Paul Kelly was commended for his work with Fáilte Ireland as he steps down as CEO.  
•  Query if Fáilte Ireland will provide funding for full time tourist office in Wexford town 

with the Mechanic’s Institute suggested as an ideal location. 

•  Does Wexford County Council have an integration policy in place? 
•  Suggestion that a pilot project to get people back living in the centre of our towns 
should be pitched to the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage.  

•  Clarity sought in relation to what a “ready to build scheme” is. 
•  Update sought on the use of CCTV for the enforcement of dumping. 
•  Update sought on Clohamon junction. 
•  Query if waste bin usage compliance is being monitored. 

Page 7 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

•  View expressed that the number of road crews isn’t sufficient to carry out the work 

required, and the need for increased roads funding from Government. 

•  Query if there is any knowledge of possible changes to the operating times of Rescue 

117? 

Cllr. J. Owens left the meeting at this point 

•  Clarity sought in relation to planning exemption figures quoted in the Chief Executive’s 

report. 

•  Unhappiness expressed in relation to the change to the tenant in situ criteria. 
•  Query why 2024 housing figures for Rosslare Municipal District are included in the 

March 2025 Chief Executive’s report. 

•  Query if there has been a comparison carried out between Wexford County Council’s 

level of road funding relative to other counties. 

•  Update sought on possible plans to bring Castlebridge House back into use as a 

community facility. 

•  Update sought on the SETU campus. 
•  Update sought on the road safety works at Larkin’s Cross. 
•  How many units will be sanctioned for Wexford under the tenant in situ scheme? 
•  Request for more information in relation to anti-social behaviour cases i.e. totals for 

year, how many resolved, legal action taken, evictions granted etc. 

•  When will affordable housing schemes such as the one in Ramsfort be rolled out around 

the county? 

•  What can be done to deal with vacant commercial properties? View expressed that 

owners of vacant commercial property shouldn’t get rates rebate. 

Cllr. O. Walsh assumed the Chair as Cllr. G. Carthy excused himself from the meeting 
momentarily. 

•  Request for funding for a nighttime economy officer. 
•  Query if Wexford County Council has had any discussions with the Minister for Housing, 
Local Government and Heritage in relation to the proposed exemption for log cabins in 
gardens. 

Cllr. G. Carthy resumed his position as Chair. 

•  Housing commended for delivery of units in Gorey. 
•  Query as to whether Housing allocate four/five-bedroom properties. 
•  Request for information in relation to litter fines and if fines are actually paid. 
•  Query if proposed serviced sites to be offered for sale by Wexford County Council will be 

connected to the mains or have their own treatment system. 

•  Who does the Oylegate Tidy Town group speak to regarding what work they can do 

along the N11? 

•  The view was expressed that preservation orders are stymying building development 

and the representatives on the Heritage Forum were asked to carefully consider what is 
being preserved. There was also a call for Enniscorthy Municipal District to delist some 
preserved buildings. 

Page 8 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

•  Solution sought to the sewerage issue in Hillview, Ballinaboola which is hindering the 

taking in charge of the estate. 
•  Request for no dumping signage. 
•  Query what happens if existing applicants for the Tenant in Situ scheme don’t meet the 

revised criteria. 

•  The appointment of a Heritage Officer was welcomed. 
•  Query if Wexford County Council will meet affordable housing and ready to build 

targets. 

•  Request that affordable housing be provided in Rosslare. 
•  Request for report from Uisce Éireann in relation to the projects outlined in the Chief 

Executive report. 

•  Update sought on the Esmonde Street regeneration works and timeline. 
•  Query if the terms of Wexford County Council’s public lighting service level agreement 
are being complied with by the contractor. Request that the terms of the service level 
agreement be circulated. 

•  Query if there is a report available outlining the list of planning applications which can’t 

proceed due to a lack of water and wastewater services.  

•  Housing staff commended for their work on a case over the weekend. 
•  Update sought on Duncannon and Slade Harbours. 
•  Update sought on the proposed Ramsgrange WWTP project. 

9. 

Minutes of CPG 

9.1 Minutes of CPG Meeting 3rd March, 2025 
On the proposal of Cllr. C. Doyle, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the Council resolved to 
adopt the minutes of the CPG Meeting on 3rd March, 2025. 

10.  Minutes of Meetings (for Noting): 

10.1 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 21st January, 2025 
10.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 8th January, 2025 
10.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 20th January, 2025 
10.4 Special Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 27th January, 2025 
10.5 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 21st January, 2025 
10.6 Rosslare Municipal District – 15th January, 2025 
10.7 Protocol Committee Meeting – 8th July, 2024 

 The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

11. 

Correspondence and Communications 

11.1 Letters from Roscommon County Council re: motions dated 17th February, 2025 
11.2 Letters from Limerick City & County Council re: motions dated 6th & 7th February, 2025 
11.3 Letter from Donegal County Council re: motion dated 27th February, 2025 
11.4 Letters from Sligo County Council re: motions dated 4th March, 2025 

 The Members noted the correspondence, as circulated. 

Page 9 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. 

Notices of Motion 

County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

12.1 Cllr. Lisa McDonald, Cllr. Ger Carthy and Cllr. Garry Laffan 
“This Council proposes that in order to advance the N11 / N25 Oilgate to Rosslare Harbour 
project and to improve road safety, certainty of travel times to Rosslare Europort, the 
existing chronic traffic congestion all along the Wexford ring road, the long traffic tail-backs 
through the small village of Oilgate, and the environmental problems associated with these 
and other issues on the current sub-standard national roads and to give certainty to those 
who live in the development corridor; that the active travel component of this scheme be 
developed offline along the existing N11 and N25 roadways, which will be reclassified as 
rural routes on completion of the N11 /N25 Oilgate to Rosslare Harbour scheme. 
This will reduce project costs, reduce land take from landowners and propertyowners, 
speed up the design phase of the already protracted delivery of the scheme, avoid the 
necessity of a further CPO and lead to a better outcome for all interested parties in this 
nationally important project. 
If passed this motion is to be circulated to all 8 Oireachtas members, The Minister for 
Transport and to the office of An Taoiseach. “ 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and carried on a 
show of hands. 

12.2 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"Déanfaidh Comhairle Contae Loch Garman gach iarracht chun tionscnamh a thosú cosúil 
le "Gaeilge365" agus "BÁC le Gaeilge". Scríobhaimid chuig an Aire chun maoiniú a iarraidh 
do thionscadail mar seo." 
"Wexford County Council will make every effort to establish projects like "Gaeilge365" and 
"BÁC le Gaeilge". We will write to the Minister to request funding for such projects." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. D. McDonald and agreed by 
all. 

12.3 Cllr. Aoife Rose O'Brien 
"I call on Wexford County Council to write to the Minister for Housing, James Browne, to 
request a complete review of the HAP rates for Co. Wexford; with a view to increase the 
allowance percentage" 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and agreed by all. 

12.4 Cllr. Craig Doyle 
" To ask that this council writes to the minister for health and asks them to look into the 
creation of an easily accessible database and/or application similar to the “dead sure” app 
used for street lighting that will allow the public and emergency services to find their 
nearest defibrillator quickly and efficiently. Also, it will allow people to easily report a used 
/vandalised unit and notify whoever is in charge of the defibrillator that it is in need of 
service." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. C. Doyle, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien and agreed by all. 

Page 10 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

12.5 Cllr.  Michael Sheehan 
“Recognising the important role that local government and local democracy plays in our 
nation, and given the need to rejuvenate and reinvigorate town centres, this Council calls 
on the Minister for Housing and Local Government to initiate the commitment in the 
Programme of Government and begin the process of consultation, roles, responsibilities 
and functions to reestablish Town Councils, in all of the areas (Wexford, New Ross, Gorey 
and Enniscorthy) that had them before their abolition in time for the next local elections in 
2029. “ 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all. 

12.6 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"This council welcomes initiatives like the URDF programme to tackle long term vacant and 
derelict properties across our county. We ask that Minister James Browne alter this 
scheme and future schemes to ensure that properties purchased by the council can be 
retained by local authorities for use as their own housing stock instead of selling them on 
the open private market where they may be obtained by investors." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. C. Doyle and defeated on a 
show of hands. 

Cllr. J. Dwyer left the meeting at this point. 

12.7 Cllr. Aoife Rose O'Brien 
"I call on Wexford County Council to write to the Minister for Housing, James Browne, to 
request that the provision of 52 weeks income receipts for social housing applicants is 
removed; acknowledging that a person’s income can change dramatically for a variety of 
reasons, in a short space of time; acknowledging that the current criteria prevents people 
in need from benefitting from the services provided by the local authority". 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and agreed by all. 

13. 

Any Other Business 

Cllr. T. Forde commended Cllr. G. Carthy on his chairing of the meeting. 

Cllr. M. Farrell thanked the Environment and LEO departments for their support of 
International Women’s Day. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan wished those areas taking part in Pride of Place all the best. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan wished the delegations travelling abroad for St. Patrick’s Day all the best 
in representing Wexford. 

Cllr. V. Barron congratulated Ursula Jacob on being awarded Wexford Women's Refuge 
Woman of the Year. 

Page 11 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.03.25 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Aibreán, 2025. 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 12 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
