County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 8 February, 2021 (via MS TEAMS) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Ger Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CODD 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD  SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

STAPLES 

 FRANK 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WALSH 

OLIVER 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD  LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive  
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Votes of Sympathy: 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

o  Mr. Sean Sutton, New Ross 
o  Ms. Anne Gardiner, New Ross 
o  Mr. John Dunphy, New Ross 
o  Ms. Lily Murphy, New Ross 
o  Ms. Alice Sinnott, New Ross 
o  Mr. Anthony Sinnott, New Ross 
o  Mr. Hugo Boyle,  
o  Mr. PJ Doyle, Enniscorthy 
o  Mr. Nicky Stafford, Gorey 
o  Ms. Ann Lambert, Killinick 
o  Mr. Gerry Meyler, Tacumshane 
o  Mr. Kevin O’Leary, Kilmuckridge 
o  Mr. John Dodd, Wexford 
o  Mr. Jimmy Murphy, Wexford 
o  Ms. Bernie Sheehan, Wexford 
o  Mr. William Culleton, Ballycullane 
o  Mr. Christy O’Connell, Caim / Rathnure 
o  Ms. Nancy Hayden, New Ross 
o  Ms. Alice Fitzgerald, Kilmallock, Limerick / Killorglin, Kerry 

The Council congratulated the following: 

o  Mr.  James  Kehoe,  from  the  Boley  Tug-of-War  Club,  runner-up  as  “one  of  the 

greatest athletes of all time” 

o  All involve in managing recent serious fire incident at Foggy Dew Wexford, including 
Wexford County Council Fire Services, Housing and Roads staff, an Garda Siochána 
and ESB Networks 

o  Wexford Library Services following launch of “On Home Ground” Volumes 2 and 3 
o  Good Counsel College New Ross, following their recent listing as the top secondary 

school in Ireland in terms of sporting achievement 

o  Mr. Mattie White, following publication of his book “Through a Farmer’s Eyes” 
o  All front line workers for their tireless efforts in the challenge of the “third wave” of 

Covid-19 

o  Mr. Joe Fortune, following his appointment to the Wexford U21 coaching Panel 
o  Wexford  Environment  Staff  for  their  management  of  recent  significant  dumping 

incidents in Kiltealy area 

1.   

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1. 

County Council Meeting – 11 January, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd the Council resolved to 
adopt the above Minutes. 

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Matters Arising: 

Test Centre: 

Legal Fees: 

Land Disposal   

County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

Cllr. J. Owens and Cllr. C. Byrne, while acknowledging  
the views of the HSE on the matter, expressed their  
disappointments that a Covid-19 test center had not been  
established in Enniscorthy 

A/DoS Ms. Carolyne Godkin undertook to update Cllr. J.  
Fleming in relation to his recent enquiry regarding    
conveyancing fees 

Cllr. Owens requested that the Council consider the disposal 
of land in Enniscorthy to the Ajax Soccer Club. Cllr. Owens  
was advised to make contact with the Enniscorthy District  
Manager to allow the matter to be considered further 

2. 

Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1  

Proposed disposal of a plot of land at Mauldintown, Wexford.  (Plot A) 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the Council resolved  
that the proposed disposal should be carried out in accordance with the Notice  
as circulated. 

2.2 

 Proposed disposal of a plot of land at Mauldintown, Wexford.  (Plot B) 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the Council resolved  
that the proposed disposal should be carried out in accordance with the Notice  
as circulated. 

3 

Draft Wexford County Council Beach Bye-Laws – For Approval in accordance with Section 
199 of the Local Government Act 2001 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  O.  Walsh  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Farrell,  the  Council  resolved 
that the Draft Beach Byelaws be adopted as circulated. It was noted that the draft Beach 
Byelaws will now go forward to a public consultation process, before returning before the 
Council for further consideration. 

4. 

Report of A/DoS, Housing, Community, Fire and Emergency Management 

Ms.  C.  Godkin,  A/DoS  updated  the  meeting  regarding  arrangements  for  provision  of 
emergency  accommodation  of  Homeless  persons.  Members  joined  in  acknowledging  the 
continuing  efforts  of  staff to  support  homeless persons.   It  was noted  that the  Council  is 
actively  seeking  to  identify  homeless  persons  at  the  earliest  opportunity  to  avoid  the 
growing challenge of finding emergency accommodation late at night or at weekends. 

Page 3 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It was agreed that the Members will be informed whenever the Cold Weather Initiative is 
activated.  

County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

5.  

Chief Executive’s Report 

The  Chief  Executive  presented  the  Report  and  together  with  the  members  of  the 
Management Team responded to a range of queries from the Members,   including 
the 
following: 

Tech University for the South East -   Two  sites 
in  Enniscorthy  were  brought  to  the 
attention of the consortium charged with the development of the University. However,  a 
suitable site has been identified in Wexford town and a firm offer  has been made to site 
owner. The project is included in the National Development Plan. A building of 10,000 m² is 
proposed  in  Phase  1  at  estimated  cost  of  €41m,  with  plans  to  accommodate  more  than 
2500 students.  

Inclusion  of  Working  Family  Supplement  in  calculation  of  local  authority  rents  –  to  be 
considered by Housing staff 

Progress on the remediation of the site of the oil tanks at New Ross – project to commence 
following lifting of Covid restrictions 

Construction of New Ross Fire Station and use of existing fire station site – New Fire Station 
project to commence following lifting of Covid restrictions, while discussions ongoing with 
HSE regarding possible uses of the resulting vacant site 

Future  plans  for  Waterford  Airport  –  Application  currently  before  APB  which  will  see 
Government  invest  €5m  as  part  of  an  overall  €12m  investment  to  extend  runway  from 
1450m to 2200m – thereby significantly increasing capacity 

Templeshannon  Enhancement  Project  –  As  no  responses  received  to  Council’s  recent 
tender invitation to appoint consultants, Council is following negotiated tender procedure 
and expects to appoint a consultant before end of March 2021. 

Development of Rosslare Europort – WCC’s submission to the National Development Plan 
under  the  “Review  to  Renew”  initiative  will  include  proposals  in  respect  of  Rosslare 
Harbour 

Link  Road  Killeens  to  Clonard  –  While  full  road  may  not  be  built  at  this  time,  sufficient 
roadway will be constructed to provide access to site of proposed school. Council Planning 
&  Roads  Depts.  have  met  to  agree  how  they  can  support  this  proposed  development. 
Technical  teams  from  WCC  and  WWETB  will  meet  as  soon  as  Covid  restrictions  allow  to 
further progress the matter.  

Housing  Adaption  works  –  Priority  1  works  will  continue.  Every  effort  will  be  made  to 
reduce the need for tenants to vacate their properties while works are underway. Where 
vacant  possession  is  need,  it  was  noted  that  HSE  may  be  able  to  offer  respite  to  the 
tenants. 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

Courtown  Leisure  Centre  -  Progress  is  being  made  by  the  liquidator  to  find  a  suitable 
purchaser to acquire and operate the facility. The Council understands that the adjacent C. 
57  acre  woodland  forms  part  of  the  current  discussions  regarding  a  possible  sale  of  the 
leisure complex and the Council will as far as possible ensure that this amenity continues to 
be available to the local community. 

Camper Van facilities – There is a need for these facilities across the county, particularly in 
the  more  visited  areas  and  the  Council  will  work  with  private  sector  in  securing  their 
development in appropriate locations. 

Site for new secondary school in Gorey – The Department of Education, supported by WCC 
is actively examining a number of sites in the Gorey town area as a suitable location for this 
proposed development. 

Carrigfoyle  Adventure  Centre  –  The  Council,  working  in  partnership  with  WWETB  will 
shortly appoint architects to design the proposed Visitor Centre and is agreeable to engage 
with Healthy Wexford in relation to the project. 

3-month  waiver  of  2021  Commercial  Rates  –  details  of  the  Scheme  have  been  recently 
received  by  the  Council  and  are  being  reviewed  –  Council  rates  warrant  for  2020  was 
approx. €40m – government grant of €15m received towards this. The expected collection 
level for 2020 is likely to be in order of 90% - similar to 2019. 

Review of National Development Plan – Wexford County Council will make a submission 

Kilmore  Quay  Sewerage  Scheme  –  The  Scheme  is  separate  from  the  Arthurstown  / 
Ballyhack proposed scheme – tenders are due for receipt within 2 weeks 

Review  of  County  Development  Plan-  Meeting  of  Wexford  County  Council  is  planned  for 
March / April to consider the outcome of recent public consultation process 

Ross Tapestry – Council will engage with the  Board of Ros Tapestry  to better understand 
the  funding  needs  of  the  project  in  the  context  of  the  exhibition’s  current  operational 
status and location. 

Min Ryan Skatepark Project – works will commence when Covid restrictions allow 

Litter  and  Dumping  –  Council  to  discourage  repeat  offences  by examining  waste  disposal 
arrangements of prosecuted offenders  

Site of former Murphy Floods Hotel – Council is engaging with owners to seek suitable 
redevelopment of site, while discouraging dumping incidence at this location 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

6.  

Minutes of CPG 

6.1   Minutes of Expanded CPG Covid-19 Committee Meeting 25.01.2021 

6.2   Minutes of CPG Meeting 01.02.2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan Codd the Council resolved to 
adopt the above Minutes 

7. 

 Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

7.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 09.12.2020 

7.2  

Borough District of Wexford Meeting -  21.12.2020 

7.3  

Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting 15.12.2020 

7.4  

Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 14.12.2020 

7.5  

Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 16.11.2020 & 21.12.2020 

The Council noted the Minutes of the meetings as outlined above 

8. Correspondence and Communications 

8.1  

8.2  

Email from Patrick McCabe Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice dated 12th 
January, 2021. 

Email from Frances-Mary Long, Private Secretary to Minister Simon Harris T.D.  
dated 26th January, 2021. 

8.3  

Letter from Galway County Council dated 26th January, 2021. 

8.4  

Letter from Wicklow County Council dated 28th January, 2021. 

8.5  

Email from Patrick McCabe Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice dated 2nd 
February, 2021. 

The Members noted the above correspondence. It was agreed that the County Secretary 
will  review  the  response  as  set  out  in  7.1  above  and  to  communicate  with  the  Minister 
further in this  regard. 

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  

Notices of Motion 

9.1  

Cllr. J. Sullivan 

County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

 “I wish to call on Wexford County Council to make recycling services free of  
charge at their designated locations around the county. “  I make this call as I  
believe it would reduce the amount of litter currently been deposited in country  
areas which I see as getting progressively worse. 

Cllr. J. Sullivan proposed the Motion which was seconded by Cllr. Kenny.  

Following discussion, it was agreed to bring the Motion before the next meeting of 
the Environmental SPC for further consideration 

9.2  

Cllr. J. Hegarty 

 “To ensure that the main street of our four district towns remain vibrant, Wexford 
County Council will require that any vacant premises display graphics depicting a  
vibrant shop setting in it's windows. Furthermore, it will prohibit large "For  
Sale/Rent" signs attached to the building and instead have an A3 page displaying 
the relevant information on the shop window. “ 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. Kenny and agreed 
unanimously. 

9.3  

Cllr. D. Hynes  

“That this government prioritise these ' essential workers' and 'key care partners'. 
There are 355 thousand family carers in Ireland, over 6,000 living in Co Wexford  
providing 24/7 care to our most vulnerable citizens and saving the State an  
estimated €4 billion every year. Family Carers are irreplaceable in the lives of the  
people they care for and should they become ill or require to self isolate the cared-
for person's lives will instantly arrive at a crisis situation. Due to lack of investment 
in disability and elderly services for decades both locally and nationally, the health 
system does not have available capacity to provide the care provided at home by  
the family carer should such crisis arrive. Family Carers need to be prioritised for  
vaccines as a matter of urgency as they have been in many other States within the 
EU where their value to our vulnerable citizens is recognised and valued as essential 
to them and to society at large. 

National Carers Strategy 2012, Vision Statement: 

“ Carers will be recognised and respected as key care partners. They will be  
supported to maintain their health and well being and to care with confidence.  
They will be empowered to participate as fully as possible in economic and social  
life “ 

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

A decade later, January 2021 and no social care support has been offered to carers 
who are caring for children with disabilities when special schools remain closed and 
adult Day services remain at much-reduced capacity followed by a blunt statement 
from the Minister for Health to say that he will not prioritise family carers in COVID-
19 vaccine rollout. 

Visions are wonderful but reality is where we live.” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed 
unanimously. 

9.4  

Cllr. G. Lawlor 

“Wexford Co. Council supports the provision of Free Travel for People with Epilepsy 
and for Reasonable Accommodations for students with epilepsy who may have a  
seizure during state examinations.” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed 
unanimously. 

9.5 

Cllr. C. Byrne 

“Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for the Environment Eamon Ryan  
T.D. to amend the Litter Pollution Act 1997 and the Waste Management Act 1996 
to provide a clear statutory framework for the use of CCTV by Local Authorities to 
deter and prosecute litter offences within their administrative areas.” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. C. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and  
agreed unanimously. 

9.6  

Cllr. T. Forde & Cllr. F. O’Suilleabhán  

"This council recognises that the income limits for social housing support applicants 
prevent many families, who are not in a position to obtain a mortgage or to pay  
high rents, from securing a home. This council calls on Fianna Fáil Minister Darragh 
O Brien to review and amend these income limits/thresholds without delay". 

The question of determining an appropriate income limit was considered   
briefly by the Members but not decided upon 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed 
unanimously.  

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

9.7  

Cllr. G. Lawlor 

“Wexford Co. Council calls on the Government to alter legislation transposing the 
EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) into Irish law amending it to ensure 
that; 

(a) 

(b) 

Communities and councils have ease of access to CCTV to protect them 
against crime and anti social behaviour including illegal dumping and fly 
tipping 

to ensure that councillors are given access to housing allocation information 
to enable the fair and transparent allocation of housing resources.  

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan and agreed unanimously. 

10. 

Any Other Business  

Cllr. L. Kelly sought to introduce a Notice of Motion, notice of which had not been given to 
the Meeting.  A number of members expressed the view that as the matter was not listed 
on  the  Agenda,  they  had  insufficient  opportunity  to  familiarize  themselves  with  the 
content of the issue. 

As required under Standing Order No. 20, the decision to hear the Motion or not was put 
to a vote for the necessary approval of not less than 18 Members. The vote was taken by 
roll call and the outcome of that vote was as follows: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

F  FARRELL 

MARY 

F  MURPHY 

JOHN 
F  FLEMING 
TOM 
A  FORDE 
JOHN 
A  HEGARTY 
A  HYNES 
DAVID 
A  KAVANAGH  WILLIE 
F  KELLY 
F  KENNY 

MAURA 
ANDREW 
PIP 
AIDAN 
CATHAL 
GER 
JIM 

BELL 
BOLGER 
BREEN 
BROWNE 
BYRNE 
CARTHY 
CODD 
CODD-
NOLAN 
CONNICK 
DEVEREUX  DIARMUID  A  MCDONALD 
DONOHOE  ANTHONY  A  MOORE 

KATHLEEN  F  LAFFAN 

F  LAWLOR 

ANTHONY 

LEONARD 
DONAL 

BARBARA-
ANNE 
BRIDIN 
JOHN 

A  MURPHY 
F  O’ROURKE 
A  O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 
F  OWENS 
A  SHEEHAN 
F  STAPLES 
A  SULLIVAN 

JACKSER 
MICHAEL 
 FRANK 
JOE 

A 
AB 
F 
F 
F 
AB 
AB 
A 

A 
A 

GARY 

A  WALSH 

GEORGE 
LISA 
JIM 

F  WHELAN 
A  WHELAN 
A 

OLIVER 

MICHAEL 
MICHAEL 

F = For, A = Against, AB = Absent /Abstain 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As the proposal failed to get the necessary 18 votes, the Motion could not be considered. It 
was  agreed  that  the  Motion  would  be  placed  on  the  Agenda  for  the  March  2021  of 
the Council for consideration.  

County Council Meeting 08.02.21 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  B.A.  Murphy,  seconded  by  Cllr.  J.  Moore  it  was  agreed  that  the 
membership  of  the  Council’s  Protocol  Committee  be  expanded  to  include  the  Council’s 
representatives to LAMA and the AILG 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan it was agreed that a number 
of Notices of Motion recently submitted to the Housing SPC would be added to Agenda of 
the March 2021 monthly meeting of Wexford County Council for consideration. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an           lá de  Márta, 2021. 

________________________  
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
County Secretary 

Page 10 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
