County Council Meeting 27.07.20 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 27 July, 2020 – 9.30 a.m.  
in the Riverside Park Hotel, Enniscorthy. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. G. Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'ROURKE 

JOHN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

CODD 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN  KENNY 

DONAL 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Larkin, Dep. Chief Executive / Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Apologies:   

Councillors:   

Frank Staples 
Joe Sullivan 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Ms. C.  Godkin, A/Director of Services 

1 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expressions of Sympathy / Congratulations 

The Members extended sympathy to the families of the following recently   deceased: 

County Council Meeting 27.07.20 

  Mr. Tom Godkin 
  Mr. Des Whelan 
  Mr. Tom Forde 
  Mr. Jack Charlton 
  Ms. Deirdre Redmond 
  Mr. Brian Murphy 
  Mr. Myles Dunne 
  Mr. James Connolly 
  Mr. Liam Donegan 

Dean na Comharleoirí comhghairdeas ar na ndhaoine as seo a leannas: 

  Ms. Gaye Murphy and all those involved in organizing the recent and 

highly  successful Relay for Life, Wexford. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1   County Council Meeting – 29 June, 2020 

Proposed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne and agreed. 

2.2  Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 29 June, 2020 

Proposed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne and agreed. 

2.3  Matters Arising 

In  response  to  members  queries,  the  Deputy  CE  advised  that  negotiations 
between Wexford County Council and Carlow IT in relation to the  
development of a Wexford Campus were progressing very well.  

The Deputy CE advised that he proposed to invite representatives from  
Carlow IT to attend the October meeting of Wexford County Council to  
outline their plans for the development of the Wexford Campus. This was  
agreed. 

2.    Proposal under Section 183 of the Local Government Act, 2001 

2.1   Proposed long-term lease of lands at Enniscorthy Technology Park  

Statutory Notice having been served, and on the proposal of Councillor B.A. 
Murphy, seconded by Cllr. O’Rourke, the Members resolved to dispose of  
the lands in accordance with the Notice. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 27.07.20 

3. 

Part  XI  of  the  Local  Government  Planning  &  Development  Act  2000  (as 
amended) and Part 8 of the Planning and Development Regulations 2001 (as 
amended)  

3.1 

LAC2001 Proposed development – Alterations to the Ballast Office to  
facilitate a change of use from office to shop/restaurant. The Ballast Building 
is a protected structure (RPS No. WBC0120) at Ballast Office, Crescent  
Quay, Wexford. 

The Members agreed to defer consideration of the Manager’s Report to a  
later date and asked that in the interim, the proposal be reviewed at a  
meeting of the Members of the Borough District of Wexford  

4. 

Notice  under  Section  106  of  the  Local  Government  Act  2001  -  Borrowing 
Approval 

Following consideration of the Report of Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance dated 20  
July 2020 and on the proposal of Cllr. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. Breen, the  
Members  resolved  to  approve  an  increase  of  €8  million  in  borrowings  for  the 
Economic  &  Community  Development  Programme  in  in  accordance  with  S.106  of 
the Local Government Act 2001.  Council approval of borrowing for this programme 
is now €48m 

Details of national proposals to amend the Rates Waiver Scheme and the ReStart 
Grant Scheme were outlined by the Head of Finance and broadly welcomed by the 
Members.  

Ms. O Neill reminded the Members that the Council will require to be put in funds  by 
Government in order to make the payments under the Restart Grant Scheme. 

5. 

Audit Committee Reports 

5.1  Audit Committee commentary on the contents of the 2018 Accounts  

and audit findings (as previously circulated) 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh, the  
Members noted the Report in accordance with Section 60 of the Local  
Government Reform Act 2014. 

5.2  Overview of Audit Committee work programme completed during 2019 

(as previously circulated) 

The Members considered the Report in accordance with section 15 of the  
Local  Government (Audit Committee) Regulations 2014  

5.3  Audit Committee’s proposed work programme for 2020 (as previously 

circulated) 

The Members noted the Report 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 27.07.20 

6. 

Traveller Accommodation Programme 2019-2024 – Progress Report 

The Members agreed to defer this item to the next monthly meeting of the Council, 
due to the absence of the A/Director of Services, Ms. Carolyne Godkin 

7. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

Deputy C.E. Mr. Tony Larkin presented the Report and together with the members 
of the  Management  Team  responded  to  a  range  of  queries  from  the  Members, 
including the  following: 

Fire-damaged houses in Ballycullane – both to be completed 

Temporary Wage Subsidy Scheme - implications for mortgage applicants 

7.1  Advance Factory New Ross – complex contract – to issue ASAP 
7.2 
7.3  Evidence of Increased littering -  
7.4  Appointment of Heritage Officer - welcomed 
7.5  Septic Grant Improvement Grant – increase in grant amount recommended 
7.6  Perceived changes to Housing allocation practices / policies  
7.7 
7.8  GDPR issues regarding littering - clarified 
7.9  Promotion of tourism in South Wexford – further plans in place 
7.10  Housing Development in Wexford –method statement submitted 
Invitation to Housing Minister to attend Council meeting - agreed 
7.11 
7.12  Road Repairs in South Wexford - noted 
7.13  Carrigfoyle Activity Centre –negotiations continue with WWETB 
7.14  Bunclody Swimming Pool – Council funding appreciated 
7.15  Road Improvements on former N11 at Ferns – will be completed 
7.16  Enniscorthy Flood Defence Scheme – Scheme approval awaited 
7.17  Building Control practices – to be reviewed on case by case basis 
7.18  Harbour Byelaws – under public consultation 
7.19 
7.20  Local Improvement Schemes – GDPR issues to be clarified 
7.21  Public water supply in Coolballow area – matter for IW 
7.22  Proposed new bridge in Enniscorthy – assessment process continues 
7.23  Help to Buy Scheme – possible use of funds as deposit to be considered 
7.24  Oilgate to Rosslare Scheme – deadline extended to 10 August 
7.25  Pontoon on River Slaney for Search and Rescue use – to be considered 
7.26  New Ross Port – Improvements contract to issue – NRMD to be updated 
7.27 
Ireland’s Ancient East – Council supporting marketing campaigns 
7.28  Courtown Parking in Public Places Byelaws – to proceed 
7.29  Camper Van parking – options to be explored at District level 
7.30  New Ross Greenway – Public to be updated on proposed access routes 

Indiscriminate parking in coastal areas – to be reviewed 

8. 

Corporate Policy Group 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. Breen, the Report of the CPG 
meeting of 17 July 2020 was noted by the Members 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
9.  

Minutes of Meetings 

County Council Meeting 27.07.20 

9.1   Borough District of Wexford Meeting 15.06.2020 & AGM 29.06.2020 

9.2   Rosslare Municipal District Meeting 15.06.2020 & AGM 29.06.2020 

9.3   Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting 16.06.2020 & AGM    

29.06.2020 

9.4   New Ross Municipal District Meeting 11.06.2020 & AGM 29.06.2020 

9.5   Enniscorthy  Municipal  District  Meeting  15th  June,  2020  &  AGM  29.06.2020

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. Fleming, the Members noted 
the Minutes of the above meetings 

10. 

Sealing of Documents 

Noted 

11. 

 Correspondence and Communications 

11.1   Letter from Mr. John Kelpie, Chief Executive, Derry City & Strabane  

District Council dated 10th July, 2020. 

Noted 

11.2  Letter of Invitation to Irish Water to attend Sept Meeting of the Council 

Noted 

12.   Notices of Motion 

12.1 

“Recognising the contribution of CE Supervisors for their years of dedication 
to their communities and the findings of the Labour Court rulings, this Council 
calls on the Government to engage, consult and honour the commitment of a 
fair gratuity scheme and resolve the pension entitlements for all the   
Supervisors and Assistants who are have put in the years of service and  
deserve their due recognition” 

Before discussion commenced on this Motion, Cllr. B.A. Murphy  
declared a beneficial interest in the matter. Cllr. Murphy then temporarily  
withdrew from the meeting In accordance with S. 177 of the Local    
Government Act 2001 and remained absent for so long as the matter was  
under  discussion. 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. A. Bolger and agreed 

5 

 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following the above discussion and resolution, Cllr. B.A. Murphy  
rejoined the meeting.  

County Council Meeting 27.07.20 

12.2    “Wexford County Council calls on the Irish Government Departments of  

Health, Justice and Equality and Children and Youth Affairs to recognize that 
Parental Alienation is “Substantial and sustained dissatisfaction within a  
caregiver-child relationship associated with significant disturbance in  
functioning” as coded by the World Health Organisation in the latest  
International Classification of Diseases version 11 and to implement  
recommendation 36 of the Report of the Reform of the Family Law System 
October 2019.” 

Proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin and agreed 

12.3   “Asking this council for the roll-out of a QR style code on every public bin in 

Co. Wexford.  

This would allow people to report overflowing bins as well as illegal dumping 
in real time using their phone and thus ensure a quick and targeted   
response. The issue has become much more prominent over the lockdown 
period with people spending a lot more time outdoors. The Summer months 
and periods of good weather further exacerbate the problem. Despite the  
best efforts of the Council, overflowing bins are becoming a common feature 
near parks and playgrounds across the county. 

If a bin is damaged or overflowing anyone with a smartphone can snap a  
picture of the QR code and report it to Wexford co Council. This generates a 
service request and the Council can then send someone to attend the issue 
asap. 

It takes less than a minute to report and it means the Council can target  
problem areas rather than trying to cover everywhere all the time. It will also 
act as a deterrent to those illegally dumping household waste near public  
bins as they know the Council will be watching the areas where it is most  
prominent.” 

Proposed by Cllr. A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan and agreed 

12.4   “We call on the Minister for Health to confirm that Ireland has already  

put in a bulk order for syringes in anticipation of a vaccine for the  
Covid 19 virus, similar to bulk orders that have already been placed by  
USA, Canada and other countries. 

Proposed by Cllr. John Hegarty.  Cllr. Hegarty then amended the Motion to 
include the following sentence. 

In addition, we ask the Minister to immediately engage with vaccine  
providers to ensure  that Ireland is included in any rollout of vaccine  
at the earliest possible opportunity. 

The Motion as amended was seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
County Council Meeting 27.07.20 

12.5   Cllr. M. Sheehan 

“That this Council agrees to organise a cross-party group and seeks a  
deputation with the Minister for Local Government, Darragh O’Brien TD  
to outline our priorities and capital investment programme for County  
Wexford for his support and endorsement.” 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed 

12.6 

 Cllr. L. Kelly 

“Wexford County Council Request that the new minister for education  
and skills immediately formulate a plan of action to directly address the  
growing educational inequality occurring in Wexford, and throughout  
the County resulting from the increased need for remote schooling.  

Families of children who do not have access to sufficient broadband or  
who do not have the finances to purchase laptops or tablet are now at an  
immediate disadvantage educationally, especially with the potential   
for second waves of COVID-19 pandemic causing further disruption to in- 
class teaching” 

Proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed 

13.  Any Other Business   

13.1  Disability Inclusion Strategy for Services. 

The Members noted circulation of the above Council publication. They  
offered a range of comments, including more transport services for those  
living with a disability in rural areas, the trimming of hedges in urban areas to 
facilitate footpath use, the marking of all disability spaces in blue, dishing of 
footpaths to facilitate wheelchair access, provision of additional bus  
shelters in rural areas. 

13.2  Protocol Committee 

A meeting of the Protocol Committee is to be convened 

13.3  Additional Schools 

The Members congratulated Cllr. B.A. Murphy for her work as Chairperson of 
the WWETB  in  securing  an  agreement  for  the  construction  of  an  additional 
secondary school in Wexford 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 27.07.20 

13.4  Covid 19 – Travel abroad 

The Members expressed disappointment that members of the public are  
experiencing difficulty in receiving refund of travel costs for cancellation of  
proposed holidays following public health  

This concluded the Business of the Meeting. 

Daingithe ar an         lá de  Méan Fomhair, 2020. 

________________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
County Secretary 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
