WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

     Minutes of the April Meeting of Wexford County Council held on the 11th of April at 2.00pm 

This hybrid meeting held in the Council Chamber with some attendance via Microsoft Teams 

Attendance 

In the Chair: Cllr. B. A. Murphy, Cathaoirleach.  

Councillors: 

Barden 
Bell 

Bolger 
Breen  
Browne 

Farrell 

Pat (online)  Donohoe 
Maura 
(online) 
Andrew 
Pip 
Aidan  

Fleming 
Forde  
Hegarty  

Anthony(online)  McDonald 
Mary 

Moore 

Lisa  
Jim 

John 
Tom 
John  

Murphy 
O’Rourke 
O’Súilleabháin  Fionntáin 

Brídín 
John 

Byrne 
Carthy 
Codd 
Codd-
Nolan 
Connick 
Devereux 

Cathal 
Ger 
Jim 
Kathleen 

Anthony  
Diarmuid 

Hynes 
David 
Kavanagh  Willie 
Donal 
Kenny 
Garry 
Laffan 

Lawlor  

George 

Owens 
Sheehan 
Staples 
Sullivan 

Walsh 
Whelan 

Jackser  
Michael 
Frank 
Joe 

Oliver 
Michael 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. E.  Hore, Director of Service  
Ms. A.  O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Service 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Service 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary  
Ms. A. McLoughlin, Administrative Officer 
Ms. Lynda Lacey, Financial Accountant 

1.  Presentation by Comhairle na nÓg 

The Cathaoirleach welcomed Paula, Laura, and Daria from Comhairle na nÓg to the meeting. 
Mr. Michael Sweeney, SSO Community Section was also in attendance for the presentation. 
The group informed the members of the results of  a recent survey they carried out amongst 
young  people.  The  members  and  Cathaoirleach  welcomed  the  group  to  the  meeting  and 
congratulated them on identifying the problem of Mental Health amongst young people and for 
trying to do something about it. 

1. 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Confirmation  of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting 28.03. 2022 

On the Proposal of Cllr. K Codd- Nolan seconded by Cllr. A Connick the Minutes of the  
County Council Meeting of 28.03. 2022 were adopted by the Council. 

1.2 Matters Arising 

Cllr Forde asked for clarification on a matter previously raised regarding the Councillors  
allegedly receiving unsolicited documents before the Special Meeting in January 2022. Mr. 
Minogue agreed to come back to the May meeting on this matter. 

At this point in the meeting the Cathaoirleach advised that a Statement would be issued by 
the County Secretary Mr. D Minogue under any other business to address recent articles 
published in the Irish Times.  

3.  Consideration of Annual Financial Statement 2021 and AFS Report 

Ms.  O’Neill,  Head  of  Finance  presented  the  pre-audited  2021  accounts  to  the  members. 
She noted that for the first time in over 10 years the accounts were in surplus in the amount 
of €36,684.  

The  Chief  Executive  Mr.  Enright  acknowledged  the  good  work  of  the  Head  of  Finance, 
staff,  and  members  alike  in  getting  to  this  surplus  position,  however  he  noted  that  the 
council  was  facing  significant  uncertainties  in  the  current  year  with  the  rising  costs  of 
energy and inflation.  

A  number  of  councilors  expressed  their  gratitude  to  the  Head  of  Finance  for  reporting  a 
surplus at year end 2021. 

The Head of Finance and the Chief Executive responded to queries of the Members on  
financial matters relating to the accounts including: 

•  Recoupment of Cost of Works at Holmestown – Covid  
•  Continuation of Outdoor Developments – Response to Covid 
•  Challenge of Rate Revaluation - appeals 
•  Borrowing and the Economic and Community Development Plan 
•  Public Conveniences Overspend 
•  Supports for Private Owners impacted by Flooding 
•  Window and Door Replacement 

At this point in the meeting the Cathaoirleach called on all those in attendance remotely to 
turn on their cameras.  

2. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the proposal of Cllr Jim Moore and seconded by Cllr M Sheehan the overspend  
outlined in the table below for 2021 was agreed by all members. 

3. 

Additional Expenditure Over 2021 Budget Sub Prog  Description Over Spend Not Funded Over Spend Funded  Notes A0101 Housing Maintenance €504,051  Overspend on Budget A0402 Tenancy Management €20,522  Increased Activity A0703 Payment & Availability Scheme  €1,989,109 Increased Activity - funded A0704 Affordable Leases  €102,484 Increased Programme funded A1201 HAP Operations €72,163 €3,770 Increased Activity B0103 National Roads Maintenance €123,354  Overspend on Winter Maintenance Budget B1101 Agency Services - Roads €82,097 €261,710 Increased Activity CEP Scheme C0401 Public Conveniences €62,908  Overspend on Cleaning D0501 Tourism Promotion  €66,251 Increased Allocation D0502 Tourist Facilities Operations €50,553  Increased Activity D0905 Economic Development Programme  €560,438 OSAS Grant Programme D0906 LEO Programme  €1,718,859 Increased Grant Activity - (Covid related) D1001 Property Management Costs €34,030  Legal Costs E0101 Landfill Operations €99,039  Increased Costs E0502 Litter Control Initiatives  €51,771 Additional Grants E0601 Street Cleaning €312,631  Overspend on Budget E0602 Provision & Imprv of Litter Bins  €148,883 Litter Infrstructure Grant Scheme E0702 Enforcement of Waste Regulations  €186,088 Anti Dumping Project Grant Programme E0901 Maintenance of Burial Grounds €38,761  Overspend on Budget E1001 Operation of Civil Defence  €85,917 Increased Activity (Covid Related) funded E1004 Derelict Sites  €144,723 Increased Activity E1005 Water Safety Operations €54,111  Overspend on Budget E1101 Operation of Fire Service  €63,854 Increased Activity - funded E1301 Water Quality Management  €37,252 Increased Activity - funded E1401 Agency Services - Environment  €19,731 Recoupable Costs F0201 Library Services Operations €37,519 €181,895 Increased Programme - partially funded F0301 Parks & Open Spaces €266,853  Overspend on Outdoor developments F0404 Recreational Developments  €111,235 Sports Programme - funded F0501 Arts Programme  €22,947 Increased Activity - funded F0502 Cont to Other Bodies - Arts Prog  €237,888 Concerts Grants Programme G0201 Operation of Piers €196,804  NRP Pension fund costs (Historical) G0203 Operation of Harbours €82,947 €13,843 increased Activity H0501 Coroners Fees & Expenses €27,130  Activity Based H0901 Representational Payments  €81,347 Moorehead Report H0902 Chair/Vice Chair Allowance  €28,711 Moorehead Report J0203 Communication Costs €51,118  Increased Activity J0701 Pension & Lump Sums €408,519  Increased Costs   €2,525,110 €6,118,706    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  3 Year Capital Programme 2022 – 2024 

The Head of Finance presented the 3-year capital programme to the members which  
includes 164 individual projects with an estimated spend for each based on the best  
available information. 

The Head of Finance, the Chief Executive and Directors of Service responded to queries of 
the Members on the 3 Year Capital Programme including: 

•  Rosslare Harbour to Wexford Greenway / Rail Review 
•  Public Lighting Ring Road New Ross 
•  Trinity Wharf 
•  N30 Clonroche Bypass 
•  Mount Elliott to St. Mullins Greenway 
•  Forth Mountain Development Carrigfoyle 
•  Gorey Town Park 
•  Housing Acquisitions 
•  Wexford Town to Curracloe Greenway 
•  Flood Scheme Bridgemeadows 
•  Public Amenity in Ferrybank including cycling park 
•  Bridges in Rosslare MD 
•  Skatepark in Enniscorthy 

The 3 Year Capital Programme was approved on the proposal of Cllr. M Sheehan and  
seconded by  Cllr Oliver Walsh. 

5.  Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

5.1  Proposed  intention  to  transfer  an  area  of  land  at  Pairc  Charman,  Wexford. 
(Statutory Notice Served 24th March 2022) 

Having considered the statutory S. 183 Notice in respect of the proposed intention to transfer 
an  area  of  land  at  Pairc  Charman,  Wexford  as  circulated  and  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  J 
Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. C Byrne the Council unanimously resolved that the transfer of 
the area of land proceed in accordance with the terms of the Notice. 

6.  Chief Executive's Report 

6.1 The Chief Executive and members of the Management team responded to queries of the 
Members on the following matters:  

•  Site for SE TU 
•  Water Issues Castlebridge 
•  Allocation of Houses in the Gorey-Kilmuckridge District 
•  Economic and Community Development Plan 
•  RTB Inspections 
•  Choice Based Letting 
•  RTE Investigates – Buy and Renew Scheme - on this matter the County Secretary 

agreed to provide a written response to Cllr Forde. 

4. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Affordable Housing Pilot Scheme 
•  Homelessness 
•  Monck Street Development 
•  Retrofit Plan 
•  Cark Parks North Gorey – Summer Ready 
•  Rewetting of Land 
•  Shower for Bath Scheme 
•  Taking in Charge  
•  Ukrainian Refugees – Housing iPass 
•  Flood relief Scheme  
•  Meeting with OPW – Bridgetown Flooding 

7.  Minutes of CPG 

7.1 Minutes of CPG Meeting 4th April 2022 

The Minutes of the CPG Meeting held on the 4th of April 2022 were approved on the  
proposal of Cllr P Breen and seconded by Cllr M Whelan. 

8.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

8.1 

Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 16.02.2022 

8.2 

Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 21.02.2022 

8.3 

Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 22.02.2022 

These minutes were noted by the members. 

9.  Correspondence and Communications 

9.1 

Letter from Dun Laoghaire Rathdown County Council re motion dated 22.03.2022 

The Members noted the above correspondence. 

10.  Councillors Conferences and Training 

10.1 The List of Councillors Conferences and training were proposed by Cllr J O’Rourke 
and seconded by Cllr O. Walsh: 

Training 

•  17 February AILG Elected Members February 2022 (In-Person) Module 1 Training 

“Elected Member’s Personal Safety and Risk Assessment” - Mullingar, Co. 
Westmeath 

•  19 February AILG Elected Members February 2022 (In-Person) Module 1 Training 
“Elected Member’s Personal Safety and Risk Assessment” – Cork (Designated 
training for WCC) 

5. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  23/24 March AILG Annual Training Conference 2022, Buncrana, Inishowen, Co. 

Donegal. Fee €155  

•  11/12 April LAMA Spring Training Seminar, Hotel Kilkenny. 
•  Feb – Nov AILG Elected Members Training Programme for 2022  

Conferences 

•  4/5/6 March Tourism & Digital Marketing, Carlingford, Co. Louth. Conference Fee 

€10 

•  7/8 April IPI Annual Planning Conference – Planning for Climate Change, Ormonde 

Hotel, Kilkenny. Fee €360 

•  27/28 April The Suck Valley Way, “Rural Regeneration Post Pandemic: The 
Challenges and Opportunities to Unlocking our Potential, Abbey Hotel, Co. 
Roscommon Fee €130 

10.2  The Members noted the conference reports below:  

•  Cllr. Cathal Byrne, The Fair Deal Scheme, Carlingford, Co. Louth 1st to 3rd October 

2021. 

•  Cllr. Cathal Byrne, Mental Health Wellbeing, Carlingford, Co. Louth 3rd to 

5th December 2021. 

•  Cllr. Joe Sullivan, Tourism & Digital Marketing, Carlingford, Co. Louth 4th to 

6th March 2022. 

•  Savannah Delegation Report March 2022 – BA Murphy, Cathaoirleach, Cllrs. G. 

Laffan, G. Carthy, G. Lawlor, M. Sheehan. 

•  New York Delegation Report March 2022 –Cllrs. A. Connick, L. McDonald 

11. Votes of Sympathy 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to the families of the following recently 
deceased: 

▪  Ms. Enid Knight, Mother of Philip Knight, Gorey – Kilmuckridge District Administrator 
▪  Mr. Brian Flood, son on Noel Flood, General Operative, Wexford Municipal District 
▪  Mr. Lee Colfer, brother of Anna Marie Colfer, Staff Officer, Finance Section 

12. Votes of Congratulations 

▪  Min Ryan Park on winning the Best Public Playground at the All-Ireland Community and 

Council Awards 

▪  New Ross Summer Sessions on winning a bronze award at the All-Ireland Community 

and Council Awards. 

▪  Wexford Senior Camogie Team on winning the Division 2 league and are being 

promoted to Division 1. 

6. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13. Notices of Motions 

13.1    Cllr. M. Whelan 

“I'm calling on Wexford County Council to support the retaining of the rescue117 helicopter in 
Waterford to service the Southeast.” 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr M Whelan, seconded by Cllr Tom Forde, and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration. 

13.2    Cllr. D. Hynes 

“This council calls on the Minister for Health to urgently address the appalling lack of dentistry for 
medical card patients. Most of the Dentists in Wexford will no longer take medical card patients 
and the cost of having fillings and extractions are out of reach of many low paid and SW patients.” 

The  motion was  passed on  the  proposal of  Cllr  D  Hynes, seconded  by  Cllr J  Owens, and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration. 

13.3    Cllr.  John Fleming 

“That Wexford County Council Calls on the Minister for Transport Eamon Ryan to hugely increase 
funding for bus shelters in County Wexford. 

At a time when bus transport is being encouraged, the lack of bus shelters is a massive deterrent 
to would- be users. “ 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr J Fleming seconded by Cllr M Whelan and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration. 

13.4    Cllr. George Lawlor 

“Wexford County Council investigates the role and potential advantages of appointing or hiring an 
EU Affairs Coordinator. “ 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr G Lawlor, seconded by Cllr M Sheehan, and 
approved by the Council. 

7. 

 
 
 
Response of the Executive: 

If passed, the Executive is happy to consider this Motion and to report it’s findings on the matter 
to the Members. 

13.5    Cllr. C. Byrne & Cllr Codd Nolan 

“In view of the current serious difficulties faced by local community groups in obtaining annual 
insurance cover for community facilities such as playgrounds, we call on this Council to engage 
with Irish Public Bodies to provide adequate insurance cover for community facilities such as 
playgrounds as a matter of urgency.” 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr C Byrne, seconded by Cllr K Codd- Nolan 
and approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, the Executive is happy to consider this Motion and to report it’s findings on the matter to 
the Members. 

13.6    Cllrs M. Sheehan and G. Laffan. 

“That this Council calls on the Department of Education to allow funds allocated for Covid 
Prevention and Mitigation in Schools to be retained and reassigned by individual schools locally 
for the sole purposes of increasing resources targeting School Completion, Family Liaison, Career 
Guidance and Mental Health Programmes to bolster the return to a normal study environment in 
the school community.” 

This proposal was withdrawn by Cllrs Sheehan and Laffan. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration. 

13.7    Cllr. Lisa McDonald, On behalf of the women’s coalition 

“That Wexford County Council calls on the Government to confront the fear of that exists amongst 
women for their personal safety with a whole of society response. A multi departmental response 
is required to deal with the different factors that need to be tackled including –education, policing, 
criminal justice, domestic violence, coercive control, pornography, and safety on line. We call for 
violence towards women to be put to the forefront of the Government Agenda so that this threat to 
our society is tackled swiftly and effectively. “ 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr L McDonald seconded by Cllr M Farrell and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration. 

8. 

 
 
13.8    Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin 

“In light of the recent flooding which caused so much damage across County Wexford, this 
Council recognises that deforestation and the widescale removal of hedgerows/ditches over 
recent years has had a large impact in terms of water movement across the country. We further 
recognise the benefits that would result from a programme of broadleaf afforestation as a 
mitigating measure to slow waterflow, as tried in other countries such as Wales. 

This year the Council will identify parts of the county where such an approach could be beneficial 
and will also engage with the relevant agencies this year to adopt such an approach. This would 
also be in line with measures that are advocated to combat climate change.” 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr F O Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr T Forde, 
and approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, the Council would be happy to consider opportunities for part-afforestation of lands in 
Council ownership. In addition, the Motion (if passed) will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for 
consideration in the context of developing afforestation opportunities for private land owners. 

13.9    Cllr. Cathal Byrne 

“Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage to 
introduce financial assistance to assist in the removal of asbestos from residential dwellings. 

And if passed, that this motion be circulated to all local authorities in Ireland.” 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr C Byrne, seconded by Cllr K Codd-Nolan, 
and approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister(s) for consideration and to all local 
authorities to seek their support of the Motion. 

13.10 Cllr. Tom Forde 

“This council recognises the important role of the various media outlets in Co. Wexford, both as 
local employers and as a means of keeping the public informed on local issues and events.  

In the interest of ensuring that the council's deployment of its advertising expenditure is based on 
effectiveness and value for money, we ask that the council conduct a complete and transparent 
review of its expenditure in this area.  

As part of this review, we request that this council write to Minister Catherine Martin and request 
her to take pro-active steps to ensure that the government plays its part in adequately resourcing 
local media outlets. 

9. 

 
Furthermore, we call on the council to actively pursue the inclusion of smaller local-owned or 
independent news and media outlets, websites and advertising companies in its media strategy to 
ensure fairness and equality.” 

The  motion  was  passed  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr  T  Forde,  seconded  by  Cllr  D  Hynes,  and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

The  Council  will  provide  the  Members  with  details  of  advertising  expenditure  incurred  in  recent 
years. 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration. 

It is the policy of the Council to pursue advertising options that result in the Council’s underlying 
messages  and  information  reaching  our  target  audiences  in  the  most  effective,  economically 
efficient and timely manner. This includes, but is not limited to local newspapers, local radio, other 
periodicals  and  publications,  websites,  social  media,  cinema  advertising,  and  other  advertising 
mechanisms. 

13.11 Councillor Barbara-Anne Murphy 

“This Council calls on the Minister for Transport to continue funding for the N24 and N25 - vitally 
necessary major road infrastructure in the South-east region. It is imperative that both projects are 
funded in 2022. 

Similar motions are being put before all 5 counties in the South East Region on this matter.” 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr B A Murphy, seconded by Cllr G Carthy, and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration. 

13.12 Cllr. Jim Moore 

“Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage to 
facilitate a meeting with the Council and the National Coastal Management Strategy Steering 
Group to highlight the immediate concerns of Wexford County Council and secure the responses 
required to address the coastal erosion issues in Wexford” 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr J Moore, seconded by Cllr L McDonald, and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister to facilitate such meeting. 

10. 

 
 
13.13 Cllr. George Lawlor 

“Wexford County calls on the Minister for Health to immediately prioritise the crisis in children’s 
services in the CHO5 area which covers Wexford, Waterford, Carlow/Kilkenny and South 
Tipperary. 

Currently there are 15,960 children awaiting first time intervention in all areas of early intervention 
in the CHO5 area” 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr G Lawlor, seconded by Cllr G  Carthy, and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration. 

13.14   Cllr. Barbara-Anne Murphy 

Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Enterprise, Trade and Employment to demand 
that the IDA fill the position of Regional Director for the South East as a matter of urgency.” 

(Similar motions are being submitted to Carlow, Kilkenny, Tipperary & Waterford Councils). 

The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr B A Murphy seconded by Cllr G Carthy and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for consideration 

13.15    Cllr. Tom Forde 

“I ask that Wexford County Council write to Minister Darragh Ó Brien and ask him to review and 
adjust the spending limits imposed on councils when attempting to purchase available and 
suitable properties for the purpose of social housing so that councils may be able to offer realistic 
bids and acquire more properties, while also being respectful to potential homeowners.” 

The  motion  was  passed  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr  T  Forde  seconded  by  Cllr  B  Murphy  and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for consideration 

13.16    Cllr. Leonard Kelly 

“Wexford County Council call on the relevant minister to fund a Local Coordination Group to 
support the Ukrainian refugee fleeing the invasion of their homeland, 

11. 

 
Like the interagency model which was successfully used for the arrival of Syrian refugees a 
number of years ago, this Local Coordination group would look at areas of health, education, 
housing and general integration.” 

As Cllr Kelly was not on the meeting and there was no proposer for it this motion was 
postponed. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the relevant Minister for consideration 

13.17 Cllr. Tom Forde 

“As window/door replacements have been absorbed into the Energy Retrofit Programme, I ask 
that this council work quickly to establish a comprehensive plan on how to proceed with the 
programme and in recognition of those that are in urgent need of replacements, and our obligation 
to upgrade all stock by 2030, create a list of priority estates/houses to be addressed along with a 
specified time frame for these units.” 

The  motion  was  passed  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr  T  Forde  seconded  by  Cllr  J  Codd  and 
approved by the Council. 

13.18    Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin  

“The County Council will support the facilitation of Irish language classes, free at the point of 
entry, through the Local Authority/local group for both adult beginners and intermediates in 
conversational Irish to ensure our native language remains a significant part of our heritage and 
culture for future generations. 

Also, that we support Conradh na Gaeilge Loch Garmans initiative 'Gaelú Lich Garman' which 
was launched recently, and which promotes the use of Irish in businesses throughout Co. 
Wexford" 

 The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr F Ó Súilleabháin seconded by Cllr T Forde 
and approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

The provision of Irish Language classes as described above will require funding to be provided by 
Wexford County Council to support same. 

This Motion will therefore be considered in the context of Budget 2023 and a specific line item for 
this purpose can be provided in that Budget, subject to Members’ approval. 

13.19    Cllr P. Barden 
“That Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Environment, Climate & Communications 
and the Office of the Planning Regulator to set as minimum, a setback for wind turbines of six 
times the turbine height between a wind turbine and the nearest residential property”.  

It was agreed that this motion would be deferred to the next Council meeting.  

12. 

 
Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister and to the OPR for consideration 

13.20    Cllr. Jim Moore on behalf of the Municipal District of Rosslare and all members. 

“Members of Rosslare Municipal District request that urgent communication be issued to the OPW 
to seek confirmation on the status of the review and report following the flooding events in the 
Bridgetown/Kilmore and surrounding areas in December 2021 and a timeframe for, when 
possible, solutions, plans and timelines will be clarified and formally notified to Wexford County 
Council.  The communication should also include a formal request from Wexford County Council 
to the OPW seeking a commitment that they will attend a meeting of the Council to present their 
findings and recommended solutions. 

In addition, Rosslare MD are calling on the OPW to immediately implement a grant scheme for 
affected residents and businesses to allow them to secure short-term solutions to deal with flood 
events e.g., flood barriers”. 

 The  motion was  passed on the  proposal of  Cllr  J  Moore  seconded  by  Cllr  F Staples  and 
approved by the Council. 

13.21    Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“In the interests of fairness, competition and value for money, this Council calls on the Minister for 
Environment, Climate and Communications and the Commissioner for Energy Regulation to 
ensure a transparent, robust and thorough procurement process be applied to next Supervisory 
Body of Electrical Contractors agreement to ensure that all contractor’s views are considered and 
that consideration for two bodies be considered to avoid monopolistic dominance of the 
market.  Upon passage this motion is circulated to all local authorities.” 

 The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr M Sheehan seconded by Cllr P Breen and 
approved by the Council. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister and to the Commissioner for 
consideration and will be circulated to all local authorities.” 

13.22    Cllr. John Hegarty 

“The current system of school wardens across County Wexford plays a very important role in 
ensuring the safety of primary school children daily. I propose that the current vacancies be filled 
in consultation with the relevant primary schools before any change of policy to get rid of wardens 
be discussed or implemented.” 

 The motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr J Hegarty seconded by Cllr B Murphy and 
approved by the Council. 

13. 

 
 
 
Response of the Executive: 

The School Warden process requires an examination of a range of factors before deciding to 
provide a school warden at any particular school.  The most important factor is the number of 
unaccompanied children that cross the road in the vicinity of the school. These factors also 
include the availability of a pedestrian crossing at the school. If the numbers of unaccompanied 
children are not high enough to warrant the provision of an adult school warden service then a 
controlled pedestrian crossing will be considered. 

Where a warden and a crossing are both currently in place at a school, surveys will be undertaken 
to assess the numbers of unaccompanied children crossing the road at that school. If the 
numbers of unaccompanied children are below the minimum number required then that warden 
will not be replaced upon their retirement / resignation. This is to ensure consistency of 
application of the School warden service at all school locations. 

An important factor to note is that an ASW service is only in operation on school days and for a 
limited time in the morning and afternoon wheres as the controlled pedestrian crossing will be in 
use 24/7 365 days a year. This controlled pedestrian crossing will be available for the entire 
community throughout the entire year and not just for the school year. 

We have given an undertaking to audit the pedestrian crossings at both the Faythe and the CBS 
national schools over the Summer holidays with a view to making any improvements that are 
deemed appropriate. 

At this point of the meeting, it was agreed on the proposal of Cllr M Sheehan and seconded by 
Cllr P Breen to suspend standing orders until 17.45. 

14. Any Other Business 

   Section 14 of the Local Elections (Disclosure of Donations and Expenditure) Act, 

14.1 
1999 - Details of statements, etc. to be furnished to members of local authority. 

The County Secretary advised that a copy of Disclosures of Donations had been circulated to the 
members.  

14.2 Irish Times Article 

At this point in the meeting the County Secretary read out a statement in relation to an Article in 
the Irish Times on Saturday 9th April 2022 which related to emails to South East Radio which he 
sent as head of Communications, Wexford County Council. In this statement he noted that 
the sole purpose of these   emails was to renew the excellent relationship the council have with 
South East Radio following on from  

the recent SIPO decision. 

A number of the Councillors spoke of their disappointed that this had been raised again and that a 
line should now be drawn under the matter. The council agreed on the proposal of Cllr J Hegarty, 
seconded by  Cllr  G  Lawlor  that  the  County  Secretary  should  meet  with  South  East  Radio  to 
resolve this matter as soon as possible. 

14. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
THAT CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an           

lá de Bealtaine, 2022. 

________________________ 
Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
David Minogue,  
County Secretary 

15. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
