County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 10 September, 2018 – 2.00 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

M. Byrne 
T. Dempsey   
J. Fleming  
L. McDonald   
M. Murphy 

P. Breen 
A. Connick 
W. Fitzharris   
D. Hynes 
M. Roche 
F. Ó Súilleabháin  M. Sheehan   
J. O’Rourke   
J. Sullivan 
M. Whelan 
P. Kavanagh  

G. Carthy 
A. Donohoe,   
T. Forde 
O. O’Connell  
J. Mythen 
O. Walsh 
T. Walsh 
W. Kavanagh 

K. Codd-Nolan  
M. Farrell 
J. Hegarty 
B.A .Murphy    
L. O’Brien 
F. Staples 
R. Ireton 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, A/Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. D. Minogue, Senior Executive Officer 

Apologies:   

Councillors:    
Officials: 

George Lawlor, Jim Moore 
Pat Collins, County Secretary 

1. 

Attendance by Minister Damien English 

Mr. Damien  English  TD, Minister of  State  at  the  Department  of  Housing,  Planning 
for  Housing  and  Urban 
and  Local  Government  with  special  responsibility 
Development addressed the meeting and thanked the Members and officials for the 
opportunity to attend. 

The Minister reiterated his confidence in local authorities as the primary provider of 
social housing supports and congratulated Wexford County Council on consistently 
exceeding its targets as set out in the Housing Programme. 

Minister English responded in a very frank and forthright manner to questions from 
the  Members  regarding  current  social  housing  policy  and  practice  (as  previously 
circulated in writing to the Minister) 

1 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

Q: 

R: 

Housing  developments  of  100  houses  or  more  -  transfer  of  planning 
application process to ABP 

Due  to  their  scale  and  complexity,  many  of  these  applications  were  being 
appealed  to  ABP  following  the  LA  decision.  It  was  therefore  considered 
prudent  to  remove  one  of  the  steps from  the  planning  process  to speed  up 
the overall planning application decision.  

LA’s  were  still  involved  in  the  planning  decision  through  the  statutory  pre-
planning consultation process. 

This  was  not  a  permanent  arrangement,  and  could  be  reversed  as  the 
delivery of housing improved 

Q:  Why does it take so long for the Department to approve a LA application to 

construct housing?  

R: 

The department employs a 4-stage approval process. The entire process will 
take no more than 59 weeks. The Department will do its utmost to ensure all 
developments are approved within this time period. 

Q:  Will the Department introduce an affordable housing scheme? 

R: 

Q: 

R: 

Q: 

R: 

The Department is in the process of finalising an Affordable Housing Scheme 
and hopes to introduce it within the next few months.  The Scheme is likely to 
be based on the construction of houses on local authority-owned lands. 

The  HAP  Scheme  is  not  suitable  as  a  long-term  housing  solution  and  the 
financial  limits  are  not  sufficient  to  meet  the  needs  of  those  seeking  to  join 
the Scheme. Those on the HAP Scheme should be allowed to remain on the 
Housing List. 

Some 38,000 families have joined the HAP Scheme, indicating it is a viable 
option for many families. The LA is empowered to exceed the limits by up to 
20%. Those on the HAP Scheme may continue to work – many families are 
content to remain within HAP and not seek further housing assistance. 

The  current  Data  Protection  Regulations  exclude  the  Elected  Member  from 
assisting  in  the  housing  process  and  need  to  be  amended  to  ensure  the 
valuable role of the Elected Member in this process can continue. 

The Minister is open to examining whether an alternative interpretation of the 
legislation is available which allows Elected Members to access key housing 
information.  In  the  meantime,  an  amendment  to  the  Housing  Application 
Form to allow the applicant to indicate their specific agreement to release of 
information to the Elected Members could be considered. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

Q: 

R: 

Does  the  Department  have  any  plans  to  introduce  a  First  Time  Buyer’s 
Grant? 

The current Help to Buy system allows the applicant to reclaim up to €20,000 
in tax and DIRT. The refund ensures the applicant gets the financial benefit 
whereas a grant has traditionally led to an increase in the cost of the house, 
with no financial benefit to the purchaser 

Q:  Will  the  Minister  increase  the  Part  V  obligation  in  respect  of  new 

developments from the current 10% level to 20%? 

R: 

The  10%  is  the  minimum  contribution  required  and  represents  a  more 
achievable  /workable  target.  In  addition,  the  previous  option  of  a  financial 
contribution in lieu of land is no longer available, 

Q:  Will  the  Minister  address  the  current  crisis  in  student  accommodation 

availability? 

R: 

The  situation  is  being  addressed  with  the  provision  of  17,000  new  student 
accommodation places currently under way and plans to bring in controls in 
respect of student accommodation rent costs. 

Q:  Will  the  Minister  consider  excluding  FIS  (Family  Income  Supplement)  for 

income assessment purposes for housing applicants? 

R: 

FIS  is  paid  as  a  wages  supplement  and  as  such  should  be  taken  into 
account in the same way as other wages. 

Q:  Will  the  Minister  consider  reducing  the  10%  deposit  requirement  for  those 

seeking a Council mortgage? 

R: 

Q: 

R: 

The  10%  deposit  is  a  requirement  of  the  Central  Bank  and  is  in  place  to 
ensure applicants do not act recklessly when entering into a mortgage. The 
applicant needs only to provide evidence of savings of 3% and may be gifted 
the balance of 7% where circumstances allow. 

Schemes such as Repair and Leaseback and Purchase and Renew are not 
viable housing options and are not achieving their targets 

The  Purchase  and  Renew  Scheme  is  quite  successful  and  effective  in 
reducing the number of derelict properties, particularly in urban areas. 

There is insufficient public awareness of the Repair and Leaseback and the 
Members support  would  be  very  welcome  in  promoting  the Scheme  and  its 
benefits to the wider community. 

On  behalf  of  Wexford  County  Council  the  Cathaoirleach  thanked  Minister  English 
for his attendance and for the manner in which he openly and frankly addressed the 
questions and issues raised. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

2. 

Nomination of Person to be a Candidate at a Presidential Election. 

Councillor Carthy proposed Mr. Seán Gallagher, Eden Gate, Delgany, Greystones, 
Co.  Wicklow  to  be  a  candidate  at  the  forthcoming  Irish  Presidential  Election.  His 
proposal was seconded by Councillor Connick. 

Councillor  Paddy  Kavanagh  proposed  Senator  Joan  Freeman,  37  Weston  Drive, 
Weston  Park,  Lucan,  Dublin  20  to  be  a  candidate  at  the  forthcoming  Irish 
Presidential Election. His proposal was seconded by Councillor Staples. 

There followed a roll-call vote, the results of which are detailed below: 

4 

GallagherFreemanAbsentAbstainBREENPIP1BYRNEMALCOLM1CARTHYGER1CODD-NOLANKATHLEEN1CONNICKANTHONY1DEMPSEYTONY1DONOHOEANTHONY1DOYLEKEITH1FARRELLMARY1FITZHARRISWILLIE1FLEMINGJOHN1FORDETOM1HEGARTYJOHN1HYNESDAVID1IRETONROBERT1KAVANAGHPADDY1KAVANAGHWILLIE1LAWLORGEORGE1MCDONALDLISA1MOOREJIM1MURPHYBARBARA-ANNE1MURPHYMARTIN1MYTHENJOHNNY1O'BRIENLARRY1O'CONNELLOISIN1O'ROURKEJOHN1O'SUILLEABHAINFIONNTAIN1ROCHEMICK1SHEEHANMICHAEL1STAPLESFRANK1SULLIVANJOE1WALSHANTHONY1WALSHOLIVER1WHELANMICHAEL116103534Councillor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

Following the roll-call vote, the Cathaoirleach declared Mr. Seán Gallagher of Eden 
Gate,  Delgany,  Greystones,  Co.  Wicklow  to  have  been  nominated  by  Wexford 
County Council to be a candidate in the forthcoming Irish Presidential Election. 

3. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

3.1   County Council Meeting – 9th July, 2018. 

3.2   Special County Council Meeting – 3rd September, 2018. 

3.3  Special County Council Meeting – 5th September, 2018. 

Proposed by Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councillor O’Rourke and agreed. 

4. 

Proposed  disposal  of  land  under  Section  183  of  the  Local  Government  Act 
2001: 

Proposed lease of the Community House at Cois Mara, Rosslare Strand. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  Sheehan,  seconded  by  Councillor  Paddy  Kavanagh  and 
agreed. 

5. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, 
of the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

LAC  1803  –  A  proposed  3.6km  long  off  road  Greenway  (Shared  Cycle  / 
Pedestrian  Path  along  with  ancillary  fencing  &  agricultural  crossings  )  to 
follow the route of the disused New Ross Railway Line between the N25 and 
the N30 at Raheen, Rosbercon,  Annefield, Glinn, Garranbehy Big Mountelliot 
in County Wexford and County Kilkenny. 

The  Members  welcomed  progress  in  relation  to  the  above  project  and  on  the 
proposal of Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councillor Fleming, noted and agreed 
the Chief Executive’s Report on the proposed development as circulated. 

6. 

Local  Government  Act  2001    -  Proposed  Section  85  Agreement  between 
Wexford  County  Council,  Kilkenny  County  Council,  and  Waterford  City  and 
County  Council,  for  the  development  of  the  Waterford  to  Mountelliott 
Greenway  (incorporating  the  Kilkenny  Greenway),  and  the  Waterford  to 
Rosslare Harbour Greenway. 

The Members considered the proposed Section 85 Agreement between Waterford 
City  and  County  Council,  Kilkenny  County  Council  and  Wexford  County  Council. 
The  Members  noted  that Wexford  County  Council  will  be  the  lead  authority  under 
the Agreement, and further noted that project costs will be apportioned between the 
three authorities on the basis of length of greenway in each authority area. 

Proposed by Councillor O’Brien, seconded by Councillor Dempsey and agreed. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

7. 

N80  Bunclody  Pavement  Improvement  Scheme  –  Proposed  Section  85 
Agreement between Carlow County Council and Wexford County Council 

Proposed  by  Councillor  Barbara  Anne  Murphy,  seconded  by  Councillor  Sheehan 
and agreed. 

8. 

Budget 2019 – Proposed Meeting Dates 

The Members noted the process of preparing the 2019 Draft Budget  is well under 
way and as part of that process the Members agreed the following meeting dates: 

LPT Decision  
Budget Strategy Meeting 
Agree General Municipal Allocations 
Statutory Budget Meeting   

10 September, 2018 
1st October, 2018 
at October 2018 MD meetings 
26 November, 2018 

9. 

Local Property Tax - Local Variation Factor 

The  Members  debated  the  issue  of  fixing  the  LPT  Local  Variation  Factor  and  in 
doing so considered the statutory Report / Discussion Paper as circulated. 

Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance, advised the Members of receipt of a further 
two submissions in relation to the LPT and outlined the details of same. 

Councillor Malcolm Byrne proposed the Council accept the recommendation as set 
out  in  the  Report–  namely  that  the  LPT  for  2019  be  retained  at  the  2018  level, 
representing  a  10%  increase  of  the  base  level.  This  proposal  was  seconded  by 
Councillor Paddy Kavanagh. 

Councillor  Mythen  proposed  a  3%  reduction  in  the  LPT  from  the  base  level.  This 
proposal was seconded by Councillor O’Connell. 

Councillor Byrne’s proposal was put to a vote, with 18 members voting in favour of 
the proposal and 6 against.  

Following  the  vote  the  Cathaoirleach  declared  that  Wexford  County  Council  had 
passed  a  resolution  to  the  effect  that  the  basic  rate  of  local  property  tax  should 
stand  varied  upwards  by  10  per  cent  for  the  year  2019  in  respect  of  relevant 
residential properties situated in the administrative area of Wexford County Council. 

10.  Consideration  of  PPN  Nominee  to  the  LCDC  –  Nomination  of  Ms.  Karen 

Dubsky 

Proposed by Councillor Donohoe, seconded by Councillor Sheehan and agreed 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

11.  Nomination  of  Council  Representative  to  SERDATF  (South  Eastern  Drugs  & 

Alcohol Task Force) 

The Members noted correspondence from County Wexford Drugs and Alcohol Task 
Force  inviting  Wexford  County  Council  to  nominate  a  representative  to  the  South 
Eastern  Drugs  and  Alcohol  Task  Force,  a  statutory  organisation  dedicated  to 
countering the growing problem of drugs and alcohol in the South East. 

On  the  proposal  of  Malcolm  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  Carthy,  the  members 
agreed to nominate Councillor Davy Hynes to represent the Council on SERDATF. 

12.  Draft Wexford County Council Annual Report 2016 

Mr.  David  Minogue,  Communications  Officer,  presented  the  Draft  Wexford  County 
Council Annual Report 2016 and recommended it to the Members for adoption. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  Malcolm  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  Barbara  Anne 
Murphy and agreed. 

13.  Minutes of Meeting of Corporate Policy Group – 5 September 2018. 

Proposed by Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councilor Hegarty and agreed 

14.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The  Members  raised  a  number  of  issues  which  were  responded  to  by  the  Chief 
Executive and Management Team – among these issues were the following: 

  Road Closure in the Bullring Wexford 
  Support for Waterford Airport 
  Funding for Urban and Rural Regeneration 
  Planning Enforcement – difficulties in concluding court proceedings 
  Opportunity to exploit more fully the economic potential of Rosslare Port 
  Commercial vacancy rates in New Ross 
  Gorey Market House – current position 
  Enniscorthy urban regeneration projects 
  Litter and Recycling – need for analysis of statistics following introduction of 

recycling charge 

  Opportunity to brief Oireachtas Members and enlist their support of strategic 

projects planned for County Wexford 

15. 

List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training 

Proposed by Councillor Mythen, seconded by Councillor Tony Walsh and agreed. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

16.  Minutes of Meetings 

16.1 Gorey Municipal District Meeting 19.06.18 

16.2 Annual Meeting of Gorey Municipal District 19.06.18 

16.3 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 13.06.18 

16.4 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 18.06.18 

16.5 Annual Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 25.06.18 

16.6 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 18.06.18 

16.7 Annual Meeting of Enniscorthy District 18.06.18 

Proposed  by  Councillor  Sheehan,  seconded  by  Councillor  Barbara  Anne  Murphy 
and agreed 

17.  Sealing of Documents 

Proposed by Councillor Codd Nolan, seconded by Councillor Farrell and agreed. 

18.  Correspondence and Communications 

  Acknowledgement  from  Private  Secretary  to  the  Minister  for  Employment  and 
Social Protection regarding Community Employment Workers pension provision 

  Correspondence regarding Community Employment Workers pension provision 

  Acknowledgment from Private Secretary to Minister for Health regarding Mental 

Health services in County Wexford 

  Correspondence  from  Private  Secretary  to  Minister  for  Housing,  Planning  and 
Local Government in relation to Housing Assistance Payment (HAP) Scheme 

  Acknowledgment  from  Private  Secretary  to  Minister  for  Housing,  Planning  and 
Local Government in relation to an independent convention on the future of local 
government 

  Acknowledgement  from  Private  Secretary  to  Minister  for  Transport,  Tourism  & 

Sport regarding the addition of first aid training to the driving test process 

  Correspondence  in  relation  to  the  establishment  of  an  independent  convention 

on the future of local government. 

  Acknowledgment  from  Minister  for  Health  regarding  mental  health  services  in 

the South East 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

  Feedback on queries raised at ESB Presentation to Wexford County Council. 

  Acknowledgement  from  Office  of  Minister  of  State  for  Local  Government  and 
Electoral  Reform  with  connection  with  the  Local  Electoral  Area  Boundary 
Committee County Wexford. 

  Acknowledgement from the Office of the Minister for Defence 

  Acknowledgement  from  the  Private  Secretary  to  the  Minister  for  Finance  and 

Public Expenditure and Reform. 

  Correspondence  from  the  HSE  regarding  recruitment  of  Paediatric  Consultant 

Psychiatrists 

The members noted the above correspondence as circulated.  

It was agreed that the recently established Council sub-committee on Mental Health 
would meet briefly at the end of the meeting. 

It being past the hour of 5.30pm, the Members considered suspending Standing Orders for 
a period of 15 minutes to allow a number of Notices of Motion to be considered. 

Proposed by Councillor Donohoe, seconded by Councillor Farrell and agreed. 

19.   Deferred Notices of Motion 

19.1   Cllr. John Fleming, Chair of Housing, Community & Environment SPC 

“That this Council call on the Minister to review the loan to value ratio of 90% 
under  the  Rebuilding  Ireland  Home  Loan,  for  construction  loans  where  the 
applicant(s) owns their own unencumbered site. This Council believes, such 
applicants should be considered for a maximum of 100% of the construction 
costs  subject  to  meeting  the  affordability  and  eligibility  criteria,  as  the  site 
would represent a minimum of 10% equity”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  Fleming,  seconded  by  Councillor  Sheehan  and 
agreed. 

19.2   Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin 

“For  over  twenty  years  now,  despite  the  evidence  of  three  national  surveys 
and reports and the current Pavement Survey Condition Index (PSCI) Rating 
results,  Wexford  County  Council  has  not  received  a  fair  allocation  of  non-
national  road  funding  based  on  the  factual  need  and  condition  of  non-
national roads throughout the country. 

The Department of the Taoiseach report on non-national roads in December, 
1997, stated that ‘funding should be based on need and, in this context, the 
findings of the Pavement Condition Study should be taken into account’. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

Wexford County Council now calls on the Minister for Transport, Tourism and 
Sport  to  address  this  long  standing  imbalance  in  non-national  road  funding 
for county Wexford, with immediate effect”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  O’Suilleabháin,  seconded  by  Councillor  Roche  and 
agreed. 

20.  Notices of Motion 

20.1   Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“Given the failure of the Government’s National Broadband Strategy and the 
inadequacy of broadband provision in parts of Co.  Wexford that the County 
Council’s  economic  office  prepare  an  options  paper  to  ensure  provision  of 
broadband  to  all  parts  of  the  County,  for presentation  to  the  Council  before 
year end.” 

Following  discussion,  Councillor  Byrne  agreed  to  amend  the  motion  by 
replacing the word “ensure” with “assist in the”. 

Proposed by Councillor Byrne, seconded by Councillor Farrell and agreed 

20.2   Cllr. David Hynes 

“This  Council  calls  on  the  government  to  prevent  the  Central  Bank  from 
closing  'Penny  Banks'  and  Christmas  Clubs  and  Thrift  funds  etc.  The  news 
that the Clonard Thrift Fund and all other Trift Funds and 'Penny Bank' has 
had  to  tell  it's  members  that  this  is  the  last  year  of  running  this  club  has 
shocked  many  users  as  it's  has  been  the  way  many  ordinary  people  have 
saved  for  Christmas  over  many  decades.  It  will  also  no  doubt  drive 
vulnerable  people  into  the  hands  of  'money  lenders'  again.  Surely  another 
attack on community spirit”. 

Proposed by Councillor Hynes, seconded by Councillor Walsh and agreed 

It was agreed to take the following three Motions together: 

20.3   Cllr. Michael Whelan 

“That this Council calls on An Post to change its policy of closing post office 
following the take up of redundancy by post masters/mistresses and calls on 
the company in consultation with the local communities to find some way of 
keeping  rural  post  offices  open  and  calls  on  the  government  to  take 
immediate  action  to  prevent  these  closures  in  the  interest  of  the  survival  of 
the commercial and community life of the rural villages affected”. 

Proposed by Councillor Whelan, seconded by Councillor Hynes and agreed. 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20.12  Cllr. Michael Whelan 

County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

“That this Council would allot time on October agenda to discuss the closure 
of post offices, lack of broadband and other matters concerning rural villages 
around  Wexford,  and  the  impact  its  having  on  the  development  of  rural 
Wexford”. 

Proposed by Councillor Whelan, seconded by Councillor Hynes and agreed. 

It  was  further  agreed  to  invite  a  representative  of  An  Post  to  attend  the 
October meeting of Wexford County Council to assist the Council during the 
debate on this item. 

20.10  Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin 

“This Council calls on Government to: 

1.  

2.  

3.  

Enact ‘Private Members Dáil Motion of the 11th November, 2016.’  (a 
call previously supported by Wexford County Council, October 2017) 

Postpone the closure of Post Offices while the Kiwi Post Bank model 
for the Irish Post Office network is developed. 

The  results  of  this  Council  motion  to  be  promptly  conveyed  to  the 
Minister  for  Communications,  Climate  action  and  Environment  and 
on 
Deputy  Hildegarde  Naughton,  Chair 
Communications, Climate Action and Environment. 

of  Committee 

4.  

That this motion will be circulated to all local authorities 

Proposed by  Councillor ‘Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Councillor Hynes and 
agreed 

20.4   Cllr. Willie Kavanagh 

“As the Enniscorthy by pass is due to open in the near future, I am calling on 
Wexford Co Council to take into consideration a traffic management plan in 
the  village  of  Oylegate  to  accommodate  local  traffic  that  will  be  generated 
especially from secondary roads at peak times i.e School times, morning and 
evening rush hour”. 

Proposed by Councillor W. Kavanagh, seconded by Councillor P. Kavanagh 
and agreed. 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

20.5   Cllr. Johnny Mythen 

“That  this  Council  puts  into  place  an  optional  tick  box  on  the  application 
forms  for  social  housing,  granting  permission  to  elected  members  of  the 
County  Council  to  access  information  including  the  names  of  the  persons 
and  the  addresses  of  the  housing  units  that  are  allocated  to  the  successful 
applicants”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  Mythen,  seconded  by  Councillor  O’Connell  and 
agreed. 

The following Motion were deferred to the October 2018 meeting of the Council 

20.6   Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That  this  Council  calls  for  the  inclusion  to  the  completion  M11  motorway 
from Oylegate to Rosslare in the National Planning Framework 2040”. 

20.7 Cllr. Tom Forde 

"In light of the concerns raised by the Construction Industry Federation and 
many  unpaid  sub-contractors  I  request  that  a  representative  of  Wexford's 
building  compliance  section  is  present  at  the  next  meeting  of  Wexford 
County  Council  to  explain  the  council's  role  in  the  process  and  that  an 
invitation 
to  Sean  Downey,  Director  of  Specialist 
Contracting  with  the  CIF,  to  hear  the  very  serious  concerns  that  he  has 
raised regarding the certification of buildings". 

is  also  extended 

20.8   Cllr. Mick Roche 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Justice to develop mechanisms to 
gather  and  publish  data  on  the  prosecution  of  discriminatory  crime  and  to 
introduce bespoke hate crime legalisation. 

Taking  into  account  there  is  no  way  of  recording  that  an  offender  has 
committed  a  hate  crime  in  our  existing  legislative  jurisdiction  or  there  is  no 
certainty that a hate motivation crime will be presented in court. 

20.9 

 Cllr. Oisin O’Connell 

“In  the  interests  of  transparency  and  accountability:  policy  documents 
adopted  by  Elected  Members  of  this  Council  will  be  archived  online 
permanently - in an accessible manner for the public”. 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

20.11  Cllr. David Hynes 

“In  January,  Independent  Senator  Frances  Black  launched  the  Control  of 
Economic  Activities  (Occupied  Territories)  Bill  2018,  and  the  bill  returns  to 
Seanad Éireann on Wednesday 11th July 2018. 

The bill seeks to prohibit the import and sale of goods, services and natural 
resources  originating  in  illegal  settlements  in  occupied  territories.  Such 
settlements  are  illegal  under  both  international  humanitarian  law  and 
domestic  Irish  law,  and  result  in  human  rights  violations  on  the  ground. 
Despite  this,  Ireland  provides  continued  economic  support  through  trade  in 
settlement goods. 

The legislation has been prepared with the support of Trócaire, Christian-Aid 
and the Irish Congress of Trade Unions (ICTU), and applies to settlements in 
occupied  territories  where  there  is  clear  international  legal  consensus  that 
they  violate  international  law.  The  clearest  current  example  is  the  Israeli 
occupation  and  expansion  of  settlements  in  the  Palestinian  ‘West  Bank’, 
which  have  been  repeatedly  condemned  as  illegal  by  the  UN,  EU,  the 
International Court of Justice and the Irish Government. 

I call on this council to support this bill and lobby to have to passed when it 
comes before the Dail”. 

20.13  Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That the Executive be requested to prepare a report setting out the planning 
statistics,  showing  the  comparisons  of  Wexford  County  Council  against 
national  averages  to  include  validations,  decisions  (grant/  refuse),  further 
information requests”. 

20.14  Cllr. Oisin O’Connell 

“Any Council vehicles undergoing detailing (as newly acquired, or for rework 
maintenance)  with  council  branding,  will  have  alternating  English  and  Irish 
language  on  either  side;  and/or,  where  practical,  similar  balance  will  be 
achieved front and back”. 

21.  Any Other Business 

21.1  Expressions of Sympathy: 

The  Members  expressed  their  sympathy  to  the  families  of  the  following 
recently deceased: 

  Mr. Billy Byrne, former employee of Wexford County Council and father of 
Peter Byrne, Machinery Yard and Billy Byrne, Personnel Department 

  Mr. Sean Murphy, son of Geraldine Murphy, Motor Tax Department  

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.09.18 

  Mr Peter Moore, Caretaker, St. Ibar’s Cemetery, Crosstown 

  Canon  John  Francis  Forbes,  father  of  Stephen  Forbes,  Environment 

Department 

  Mrs. Eileen Doyle, mother of the Cathaoirleach, Councillor Keith Doyle 

  Mr. Martin Colfer, Blackhill, Duncannon 

  Ms. Tara Bishop, Ballina Upr. Ballymurn 

21.2  Vóta Comhghairdeas 

Dean na Comharleoirí comhghairdeas ar na ndhaoine as seo a leannas: 

  Deirdre Duke, Member of Irish Hockey Team 

  District  Manager  and  Staff  of  Enniscorthy  Municipal  District  for  the 

management of Enniscorthy Rockin’ Food Festival 2018 

  John Whelan, Ballycullane, World Ploughing Silver Medal 

  District  Manager  and  Staff  of  New  Ross  Municipal  District  for  the 

management of Kennedy Summer School Festival 2018 

  Dr .Michael Redmond, Irish scientist and Wexford native who was among 
a group of seven who shared in the 2018 António Champalimaud Vision 
Award for their work on developing a revolutionary cure for a rare genetic 
form of childhood blindness. 

  Members  of  the  Wexford  Handball  team  who  competed  successfully  at 

the recent World Handball Championships. 

  Patrick  Prendergast,  Enniscorthy–born  and  Provost  of  Trinity  College 

Dublin. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de                 

  , 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
