County Council Meeting 8.11.21 (4.30pm) 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held in the Ferrycarrig Hotel, Wexford Monday 8th November 2021 at 4.30pm  

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. B. A. Murphy Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

BELL 

MAURA 

MOORE 

JIM 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CONNCIK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Oireachtas:  Ms. V. Murphy, T.D. 

Apologies: 

Cllrs:  

M. Farrell, D. Hynes, L. McDonald, J. Owens, F. Staples, G. Carthy,  
D. Devereux, A. Donohoe, G. Lawlor, J. O’Rourke 

Officials: 

Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Page 1 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 8.11.21 (4.30pm) 

Matters deferred from Council meeting of 8th November 2021 (2.30pm Meeting) 

12. 

Deferred Notices of Motion from Council Meeting 13th September, 2021 

12.1   Cllr. Leonard Kelly, 

“I am calling on Wexford County Council, working with each municipal district to 
carry out a complete road safety audit on all estates that are taken in charge by 
Wexford County Council, with particular emphasis on the condition of existing speed 
ramps (and assessment of need for new ramp) and the erection of signage (Slow 
Down, Children at Play, etc.) as appropriate. 

I have received many representations relating to reckless behaviour of some drivers 
within residential areas. The safety of residents and their children should not be 
dependent on makeshift signage or on discretionary funds being spent by individual 
councillors for things like speed ramps. Any and all safety upgrades need to be 
costed, budgeted and planned to give clarify to local residents. 

We should not be found wanting in this regard.” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden and agreed by 
all. 

12.2   Cllr. Tom Forde 

We ask for the Wexford County Council tenant handbook to be reviewed with a view 
to ensuring that the Council is held to the same standards and responsibilities that 
are expected of private landlords regarding repairs and other essential maintenance 
works 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F. O’ Suilleabháin and 
agreed by all. 

13.  

Deferred Notices of Motion from Council Meeting 11th October, 2021 

13.1   Cllr. J. Hegarty 

"Wexford County Council commits to include all Council playgrounds, parks, beaches 
and areas designed for children and young people as part of the initial phase of the 
Healthy County Committee "Not around us" campaign. This will establish a series of 
places and spaces all over County Wexford where children and young people can 
enjoy themselves in a smoke and vape free environment." 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan and agreed 
by all. 

Page 2 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 8.11.21 (4.30pm) 

13.2   Cllr. Tom Forde 

“This council recognises that asking a homeless individual or family to take up 
emergency accommodation outside of their district and away from their place of 
work or school, can negatively impact their employment and the education of school 
children. In its efforts to support our homeless the council will endeavour, now and 
in the future, to secure or provide emergency accommodation within the district 
where an individual or family have become homeless. 

Following discussion, it was agreed that the Motion be amended as follows: 

“This council recognises that asking a homeless individual or family to take up 
emergency accommodation outside of their district and away from their place of 
work or school, can negatively impact their employment and the education of school 
children. In its efforts to support our homeless the council will endeavour, now and 
in the future, to secure or provide emergency accommodation within the area 
where an individual or family have become homeless. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed by 
all. 

13.3   Cllr. L Kelly 

“In 2021, Ireland’s National Mental Health Budget represents only 5.1% of the 
national Health Budget. The World Health Organization recommends 12% 
Sláintecare recommends 10% The UK spends nearly 13% of their health budget on 
mental health. 

Mental Health Reform, together with their 77 member organisations last month 
called on the Irish Government to increase Mental Health Budget spending to 10% 
of the total health budget by 2024. I ask the members of Wexford County Council to 
also support this call. “ 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and agreed by 
all. 

13.4   Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin  

"That Wexford County Council reviews what chemicals (and quantity of same) that 
we are adding to the county’s water supply. 

 Working in cooperation with other bodies, we do an assessment of need and risk 
benefit analysis" 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. F. O’Sullivan and seconded by Cllr. T. Forde. 

Page 3 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 8.11.21 (4.30pm) 

Following discussion, it was agreed to send this Motion to the Transportation & 
Water Services SPC for consideration 

13.5   Cllr. Tom Forde 

“This council calls on the government to recognise and vindicate the right of all 
persons to adequate housing by way of a referendum and asks that a date for a 
referendum on the right to housing is set for 2022.” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Forde and seconded by Cllr. J. Codd. 

Following discussion, the following amendment was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty 
and seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan 

“This council calls on the government to recognise and vindicate the right of all 
persons to adequate housing by way of a referendum and asks that a date for a 
referendum on the right to housing is set within the lifetime of this government to 
amend the constitution accordingly.” 

The Motion as amended above was put and agreed on a show of hands. 

14.   Notices of Motions 

14.1    Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

"That Wexford County Council recognises that there are a huge amount of vacant 
properties in this county, and that we will employ a full time Vacant Housing Officer 
for 2022 to endeavour to bring as many units as possible back into use, to help with 
affordable housing options" 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. O’Suilleabhain, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and 
agreed by all. 

14.2    Cllr. L. Kelly 

“This motion calls on Wexford County Council to introduce new 'Hidden Disability' 
parking spaces at popular family locations across the county, similar to the very 
successful Hidden Disability Sunflower Spaces provided by Waterford County 
Council.” 

We all know families and individuals who are trying their best to navigate the world 
we live in, with a disability.  It’s a difficult thing to do, and we as a Local Authority 
have a duty to do all we can to improve our environment and make it more 
accessible.  

Page 4 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 8.11.21 (4.30pm) 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed 
by all.  

Following brief discussion, it was further agreed that the provision of “Hidden 
Disability” parking spaces would be initially implemented on a trial basis at some of 
the county’s more popular visitor attractions. 

14.3    Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

"That Wexford County Council acknowledges the need for clean, tasteless drinking 
water in all areas of the county, and that we will work with Irish Water to ensure we 
have UV filtration systems in place in all districts" 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. F. O’Suilleabhain and seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly. 

Following discussion, Cllr. F. O’Suilleabhain agreed to amend the Motion to remove 
the word “tastleless” and this was agreed by Cllr. Kelly. 

The amended Motion thus read as follows: 

"That Wexford County Council acknowledges the need for clean drinking water in all 
areas of the county, and that we will work with Irish Water to ensure we have UV 
filtration systems in place in all districts" 

The amended Motion was put and agreed by all.  

15. 

Votes of Sympathy and Congratulations: 

The Members agreed a number of Votes of Sympathy and Congratulations. It was noted 
these are to be communicated by the proposing Member to the County Secretary in order 
to be properly recorded in the Minutes. 

16. 

AOB 

• 

It was agreed that the Council would write to the HSE to ask for a representative to 
attend a meeting of the Council to discuss the provision of homecare hours in the 
community. 

•  Housing Officers to recommence face-to-face meeting with their clients as soon as 

possible and when considered safe to do so. 

• 

• 

It was agreed that the Council would write to the HSE to ask that action be taken to 
address the current shortage of local General Practitioners. 

It was agreed to write to Eirgrid to urge the implementation of the necessary 
licencing system that would allow domestic producers of electricity to sell their 
excess electricity back to the national grid. 

Page 5 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 8.11.21 (4.30pm) 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Nollaig, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
David Minogue,  
County Secretary 

Page 6 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
