WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL  

Minutes of the May Meeting of Wexford County Council held on the 9th of May at 2.30pm. 
This hybrid meeting was held in the Council Chamber with some attendance via Microsoft 
Teams. 

Attendance 

In the Chair: Cllr. B. A. Murphy, Cathaoirleach.  

Councillors 

Barden 
Bell 

Bolger 

Breen  

Browne 
Byrne 
Carthy 
Codd 
Codd-
Nolan 
Connick 

Devereux 

Officials: 

Pat  
Maura 
(online) 
Andrew 
(online) 
Pip 

Aidan  
Cathal 
Ger 
Jim 
Kathleen 

Anthony  
(online) 
Diarmuid 

Donohoe 
Farrell 

Anthony(online)  McDonald 
Mary 

Moore 

Lisa  
Jim 

Fleming 

John 

O’Súilleabháin  Fionntáin 

Forde  

Tom 

Staples 

Sullivan 
Walsh 
Whelan 

John  
Hegarty  
Hynes 
David 
Kavanagh  Willie 
Kelly 
Kenny 

Leonard 
Donal 

Laffan 

Garry 

Lawlor  

George 

Frank 
(online) 
Joe 
Oliver 
Michael 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. E.  Hore, Director of Service  
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Service 
Ms. A.  O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Mr. B Galvin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. G Forde, A/ Director of Service 
Mr. G. Mackey, SEO Community 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary  
Ms. A. McLoughlin, Administrative Officer 
Ms. A Marie Laffan, Community Section 
Ms. Y Byrne, Rural Development Consultant 

Apologies: 
Cllr J Owens 
Cllr B Murphy 
Cllr J O’Rourke 
Cllr M Sheehan 

1. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Cathaoirleach informed the meeting that the Hungarian Ambassador’s wife had been in 
attendance at the County Hall to celebrate Europe Day, on Friday 6th May 2022 which was a 
particular important celebration this year, a difficult time for peace in Europe.   

The Cathaoirleach also acknowledged the designation of the SETU on the 1st May 2022 which 
was a significant achievement for the people of the South East. Cllr Jim Moore former Chair of 
WIT Governing Board thanked the Cathaoirleach, Mayor and Chief Executive for their support in 
getting to this momentous point. He also acknowledged the support of the other Chief Executives 
in the region.   

1. 

Confirmation  of Minutes: 

1.1  County Council Meeting 11th April 2022 

On  the  Proposal  of  Cllr  O  Walsh  seconded  by  Cllr  G  Carthy  the  Minutes  of  the  County  Council 
Meeting of 11th April 2022 were adopted by the Council. 

1.2 Matters Arising 

Cllr G Carthy asked for the timelines and the funding stream for the Rosslare Harbour to Drinagh 
Cycle  Lane.  The  Chief  Executive agreed  that  these  issues  would be  dealt  with  in a  letter to  the 
Rosslare Municipal District members. 

Cllr  Forde  noted  that he  had  not  received  a  response  to  a  request  he  had  made  at  the last  two 
meetings for a report on the properties bought under the Buy and Renew Scheme that were subject 
to  a  recent  RTE  Investigates  Programme.  Both  the  Cathaoirleach  and  the  Chief  Executive 
apologised for the delay in the response. Mr. G Forde, A/ DOS confirmed that a response would 
issue to Cllr Forde on this matter before the end of the week.  

2. 

Chief Executives Report on the Extension of Duration of the Gorey Local Area Plan 

Having  considered  the  Chief  Executives  Report on  the  extension of  duration  of  the  Gorey  Local 
Area Plan as circulated and on the proposal of Cllr. P Breen seconded by Cllr J Sullivan the Council 
unanimously resolved that in accordance with Section 19(1)(d) of the Planning and Development 
Act, 2000 (as amended), that Wexford County   Council,defer the sending of a notice under Section 
20(3)(a)(i) and the publishing a notice under Section 20(3)(a)(ii) of the Planning and Development 
Act, 2000 (as amended) for a further period of up to three years.  

3. 

Update on County Development Plan  

On the proposal of Cllr G Carthy, seconded by Cllr P Breen it was agreed by the members to hold 
a special meeting of the County Council  on the Proposed Material Alterations of the County 
Development Plan on the 13th June at 9.30 am. 

4. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

4.1 Proposed intention to Dispose of Property at Ballymore, Camolin 
(Statutory Notice Served 4th April 2022) 

Having  considered  the  statutory  S.183  Notice  in  respect of the  proposed  disposal  of  property at 

2. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ballymore,  Camolin  as  circulated  and  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  A  Donohue,  seconded  by  Cllr.    J 
Fleming the Council unanimously resolved that disposal of property proceed in accordance with the 
terms of the Notice. 

5. 

Draft Age Friendly Strategy  

The Draft Age Friendly Strategy was presented to the members by Mr. G Mackey, A/ SEO 
Community Development for approval, he advised the members that it was a living document and 
changes would be made to it over its lifetime.  

Mr. Mackey responded to a number of queries on this strategy and extended his thanks in particular 
to Ms. A M Laffan and Dr. Y. Byrne, Rural Development Consultant for their assistance in preparing 
the strategy. A number of members congratulated Mr. Mackey and his team on the strategy.  On 
the proposal of Cllr D Hynes, seconded by Cllr G Lawlor it was unanimously agreed that Wexford 
County Council adopt this strategy. 

6. 

Audit Committee Charter 

Having considered the Audit Committee Charter which is a requirement under Section 8 of the Local 
Government  (Audit  Committee)  Regulations  2014  and  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  K  Codd-  Nolan, 
seconded by Cllr. O Walsh the Council adopted the Charter as circulated.  

7. 

Invitation to Lugo 14th to 16th May  

The County Secretary advised the meeting that an invitation had been extended to the Mayor 
and two representatives from Wexford Borough District from the 14th to 16th May 2022 for the 
opening of the Rossini Theatre in Lugo, Italy. 

On the proposal of Cllr F O’Suilleabhain and seconded by Cllr D Hynes it was members 
agreed that the Mayor Cllr. G Laffan and Cllr’s L Kelly and M Bell would accept this invitation 
and travel to Lugo on behalf of the Borough District.  

8. 

County Heritage Forum Elected Member Nominees 

Ms. E Hore, DoS advised the meeting that she was seeking 3 nominees from the council to sit  on 
the County Heritage Forum which would report to the SPC’s. On the proposal of Cllr J Moore, 
seconded by Cllr F O Súilleabháin it was agreed to have a rep from the 2 relevant SPCs and a 
general rep from the full council nominated to this Forum. Ms. L Hore agreed to write out to the 
members to seek nominations in line with the proposal.  

9. 

Vacancy – Rural Water Monitoring Committee 

Cllr M Farrell advised the meeting that she was resigning from this group due to other 
commitments. On the proposal of Cllr O Walsh and seconded by Cllr C. Byrne it was agreed that 
Cllr F. Staples would fill this vacancy.  

10. 

 Social Media Charter 

The County Secretary advised the meeting that the Social Media Charter had been developed 
and brought  from the Protocol Committee. The Cathaoirleach advised the meeting that the 

3. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proposal was that each member to sign off on the charter individually.  A long discussion took 
place on a number of elements in this  charter which was circulated by the County Secretary.  

It was agreed that when the Online Media Safety and Media Regulation Bill is enacted which is 
the proposed legislation to tackle online and social media abuse, harassment and bullying that 
this charter would be revisited in the context of centralised guidance.  

11. Proposed Date for the Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 

On the proposal of Cllr G Carthy, seconded by Cllr G Laffan the members agreed that the 
Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council would take place on the 20th June 2.30pm.  

12. Chief Executives Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management team responded to queries of the  Members 
on the following matters: 

Invitation to Housing Minister opening of new Housing Schemes 

•  TII – Review of Projects – Rosslare Port and Oylegate Projects  
•  Water Infrastructure Investment Update 
•  Housing National Retrofit Scheme 
•  Beach Wheelchair Access outside of summer hours 
•  Affordable Housing proposals – Wexford County Council not included 
•  Pyrite / Mica Houses affected in County Wexford 
•  Low level of Housing Allocations in Gorey Area 
•  Allocations at Airhill, Belvedere 
•  Motion passed – Rainbow Roads Crossing – Progress 
• 
•  Bayview Site Courtown 
•  Signs at Scarawalsh speed limit are very small 
•  Funding for N80 at Tomahurra – Does it include Fencing and Sink Hole repairs 
•  Public Lighting Ferns Village to GAA Pitch 
•  Further Public consultation for Town Centre Enniscorthy 
•  Signage Vinegar Hill 
•  Planning Application Status – Murphy Floods Site 
•  Grants for the Removal of Asbestos in Roof 
•  Bridge Repairs Little Cullenstown 
•  AHB Allocation of Social Houses  
•  Ramsfort Affordable Housing Site 
•  Lot 4 South East Greenway progress 
•  Expression of Interest Town and Village – Irish Water Issues 
• 

Invitation to head of ESB to a Council Meeting to discuss issues with delays in 
connecting new houses 

•  Wexford Town Transport Strategy – Status 
•  Active Travel Team- status  
•  Tourism Office Proposed opening June 2022 
•  Trinity Wharf – Current position 
•  Facility for Lorry’s that stop in Oylegate on way to Rosslare. 
•  Planning Enforcement progress 
• 
•  Piers and Harbours 

Irish Water Asset Delivery – Campile / Adamstown 

4. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Homeless figures  
•  House at Mullinour  
•  Vacant Position Planner in Rosslare MD 
•  Flooding Growtown Update from OPW 
•  Pre- Planning Meeting Delays 

It was agreed on the proposal of Cllr J Codd and seconded by Cllr J Moore at this point in the 
meeting that standing orders would be suspended for 10 minutes in order to complete the 
discussion on the above items. 

THAT CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an           

lá de Meitheamh, 2022. 

________________________ 
Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
David Minogue,  
County Secretary 

5. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
