County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 14 June, 2021 (via MS TEAMS) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. G. Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BRIDÍN 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN 

FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CODD 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD  SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

STAPLES 

 FRANK 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WALSH 

OLIVER 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services and Deputy Chief Executive 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 
Mr. D. Houston, Senior Planner 

Public:  

Several members of the public attended remotely 

Oireachtas:  Ms. V. Murphy, T.D. 

Apologies:  Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 

Page 1 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

•  Mr. Paul Martin, Cromogue, Bunclody 
•  Ms. Maureen Willoughby, Tara Vie Hotel, Courtown 
•  Mr. Tom Moorehouse, Enniscorthy – former Member of Enniscorthy Town Council 
•  Mr. Bob Cowman, former employee Wexford County Council 
•  Mr. Ben Mulhall, father of Ger Mulhall, Customer Services Unit 
•  Ms. Elizabeth (Lily) White, mother of Eileen Whitty, Housing Department. 

Votes of Congratulations: 

The Council expressed their congratulations to: 

•  Ms. Teresa Grant, former employee Wexford County Council, on being awarded an OBE 
•  Rev. Fr. Gerard Nash, on being named as Bishop-elect for the diocese of Ferns 
•  Rugby player Paul Boyle, Gorey 
•  Murrintown Village – winner of Today FM Soundtown competition for May 2021 
•  Taghmon/Camross GAA following their fundraising efforts to provide a defibrillator in the 

community 

•  To  Government  following  extension  of  the  Covid  Business  Support  Scheme  to  small 

businesses 

•  The Wexford Senior Football Team 
•  Wexford  County  Council  staff  for  their  efforts  over  recent  months  to  manage  the  litter-

related challenges of outdoor dining and increased staycations 

•  The Glynn-Barntown Rounders Team 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1  

 County Council Meeting – 10th May, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed by all 
the Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes. 

2. 

Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1  

Proposed disposal of land at St. Ibar’s Villas, Ballyboggan Lower, Castlebridge, Co. 
Wexford.   

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. F. Staples and agreed by all the 
Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes. 

Page 2 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

2.2  

Proposed  disposal  of  a  plot  of  land  at  property  at  Butlersland,  New  Ross,  Co. 
Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. F. Staples and agreed by all the 
Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes. 

3. 

Proposed Material Contravention of Courtown & Riverchapel Local Area Plan 2015 – 
2021 (extended) - (Section 34 (6) of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (As 
Amended)) 

Reference Number in Register 20201528 - Permission for an extension consisting of 30 
No. units to Mobile Home Park with connections to existing services on site and to carry 
out all associated ancillary site works 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh and agreed unanimously  the 
Council resolved to require that a decision to grant permission be made. 

4. 

Chief Executive's Report  

The Chief Executive and Members of the Management Team responded to a range of 
queries from the elected members, including the following: 

o  Gorey Town Park 
o  Toilet Facilities at Carrigfoyle and Country Walk Enniscorthy 
o  Members Portal 
o  Bus Services to Curracloe Beach 
o  New Ross Advance Factory 
o  New Ross Ambulance Centre 
o  Housing Energy retrofit scheme 
o  Housing Adaption Grants 
o  High Hill New Ross Capital Project 
o  Acquisition of houses in rural villages 
o  Remediation of Oil Tanks Site New Ross 
o  Carparking at Duncannon Beach 
o  Circulation of LCDC Minutes 
o  Town & Village Scheme 2021 
o  Sewerage Treatment Schemes for Fethard and Ramsgrange 
o  Additional public convenience in Wexford Town 
o  Closure of Wexford Tourist Office 
o  Appointment of Walking / Cycling Officer 
o  Affordable Housing Survey 
o  Oilgate to Rosslare – preferred route 
o  Vacant local authority houses 
o  Funding for housing repairs 
o  “set down” area for fishermen at Kilmore Quay 

Page 3 of 9 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

o  Position of Housing Officer, Enniscorthy 
o  Road traffic safety considerations at St. Senan’s School, Enniscorthy 
o  Tenant Purchase Scheme – income considerations 
o  Anti-social behaviour at Gorey Town Park 
o  Unauthorised parking of camper vehicles at Kilmore Quay 
o  The provision by other local authorities of HAP support to tenants seeking to locate 

in County Wexford 

o  Application of S.254 licence requirements to outdoor dining proposals 

5. 

Minutes of CPG  

5.1  Minutes of CPG of 8th June, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by all, 
the Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes 

6. 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

The Council noted the following Minutes: 

6.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 14.04.2021 

6.2  

Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 19.04.2021 

6.3  

Special Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 13.05.2021 

6.4  

Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 19.04.2021 

6.5  

Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 19.04.2021 

6.6  

Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 20.04.2021 

Suspension of Standing Orders 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by all, the Council 
resolved to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue until 6.00pm. 

Page 4 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  

Correspondence & Communications 

County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

7.1  

Letter from Fermanagh & Omagh District Council re: Motion dated 7th May, 2021. 

7.2   

Letter from Department of Housing, Local Government and Heritage re: Housing 
Assistance Payment (Gorey- Kilmuckridge Local Electoral Area)           dated 10th 
May, 2021. 

7.3  

7.4  

7.5  

7.6  

7.7  

7.8  

Letter from Leitrim County Council re motion tenant purchase scheme dated 12th 
May, 2021. 

Letter from Clare County Council re motion maximum household income thresholds 
dated 17th May, 2021. 

Letter from Limerick City & County Council re Rural Development Policy dated 17th 
May,  2021. 

Email from Patrick McCabe, Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice re motion 
GDPR dated 28th May, 2021. 

Letter from Sligo County Council re motion bereavement allowance dated 1st June, 
2021. 

Letter from Sligo County Council re motion legislation on stalking dated 2nd June, 
2021. 

The members noted the above correspondence.  

8.  

Deferred Notices of Motion from Council Meeting 10th May 2021 

8.1  

Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

Procurement 

That Wexford County Council notes the long overrun in the completion period for 
some of our major projects, as well as the high overspend for some of our projects in 
comparison to the original projected cost. 

As a solution, this Council will: 

(a)  

(b)  

endeavour to insert a Sunset-type clause to tie developers to an agreed 
completion date on projects and  

that we will insert a Social Inclusion Contract to ensure a higher percentage 
of local labour get employed and (c) that we will look at the model of 
Community Wealth Building as introduced in some local authority areas 
abroad. (CWB seeks to leverage existing local and regional resources to 

Page 5 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

provide workers, families and communities with greater control over their 
own economic development and ensure money is kept in the local economy) 

As an example, in Co.Wexford this could entail the breaking down of a 
contract into smaller parts i.e. on Gorey Town Park project, one local 
company could be employed to do the soft landscaping; another the hard 
surface works and another the building works, playground etc. 

This alternative model is more beneficial to the local economy and local 
businesses than the current e-tendering model which would appear to favour 
a single larger company. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin and seconded by Cllr. J. Codd. 

Following discussion, it was agreed to defer this Motion to the July meeting of the 
Council for further consideration 

8.2  

Cllr. T. Forde 

“We also call on the minister of agriculture to intervene in the current impasse that 
Wexford scallop fishers are facing due to the British Brexit ruling banning them from 
landing their catch at any British Port." 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed 
unanimously.  

8.3  

Cllr. J. Moore 

'Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage 
to facilitate a meeting with the Council and the National Coastal Management Strategy 
Steering Group to highlight the immediate concerns of Wexford County Council and secure 
the responses required to address the coastal erosion issues in Wexford.' 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed 
unanimously.  

8.4       Cllr. G. Carthy, Cathaoirleach 

“That we the Members of Wexford County Council request that the Minister for the 
Environment, Climate and Communications and Transport, Mr. Eamonn Ryan TD prioritises 
the planning, design and construction of the N24 Waterford to Limerick Corridor road 
project within the Review of the National Development Plan.  

This project is critical to the development of the South East region and to the achievement 
of national targets on addressing regional imbalance by connecting the cities of Waterford 
and Limerick, the South East, South West and Mid West Regions, Rosslare Europort, the 

Page 6 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

Port of Waterford and existing strategic transport corridors including the M7(Dublin – 
Limerick), M8 (Dublin- Cork) and M9 (Dublin-Carlow-Kilkenny-Waterford ) motorways. 

It is further requested that this Notion of Motion be sent to the Minister for Finance, Mr 
Paschal Donoghue TD and Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform, Mr. Michael 
McGrath TD. “ 

At the request of the Cathaoirleach, this Motion was deferred to the July meeting of the 
Council. 

8.5  

Cllr. F. O Suilleabhain 

“Wexford County Council  should examine the Community Wealth Building model with a 
view to incorporating it into their Local Economic Community Plans (LECP). 

Community Wealth Building has emerged as a powerful approach to local economic 
development and has been particularly successful in Preston, England, North Ayrshire, 
Scotland and Cleveland, United States. 

The model will allow counties to leverage existing resources, such as procurement, to meet 
local needs while creating quality employment and promoting equity and sustainability. 

This Council will initiate dialogue with local public bodies and semi-state companies in the 
locality regarding their potential role in the strategy. 

That we will bring local businesses, enterprises and community activists  into the discussion 
around developing the project. 

That we also engage with councils in Preston, North Ayrshire and elsewhere which have 
successfully developed this model.” 

(A number of councils have already passed this motion.) 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin and seconded by Cllr. J. Codd. 

Following discussion, it was agreed to defer this Motion to the July meeting of the Council 
for further consideration 

8.6  

Cllr. M. Bell 

“I ask this Council to write to the Department of Health, Minister Stephen Donnelly, to help 
victims of domestic, sexual and gender -based violence access to free psychological support 
& counselling, noting that this is a free service for perpetrators while in prison.“  

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Bell, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed 
unanimously.  

Page 7 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

8.7  

Cllr. M. Sheehan 

“Welcoming the agreement between the DPER and the DSPEA to resolve the longstanding 
issue of the CE Supervisors Pension entitlement, this Council calls for the speedy 
implementation of the agreement in full and to ask the Minister for Social Protection, 
Heather Humphreys to consider extending participant’s last year of their Community 
Employment Schemes by a further year in recognition of the lost time, training and 
contributions to the community due to Covid 19”. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by C. Byrne and agreed 
unanimously.  

8.8       Cllr. G. Carthy, Cathaoirleach 

“That this Council calls on the Government in the light of Brexit and other market influences 
to recognise the strategic value of the South-East Ports in Rosslare and Belview, Waterford 
through Strategic investment in the Ports, in particular through the purchase of additional 
land for the expansion of Rosslare Europort and the advance construction of Rosslare 
Europort Harbour Access Road, Amalgamation of the ports structure and governance to 
create a Tier 1 port as a combined entity, Designation of the combined entity as the service 
port for off-shore renewables in The Irish and Celtic Seas. “ 

At the request of the Cathaoirleach, this Motion was deferred to the July meeting of the 
Council. 

8.9  

Cllr. T. Forde 

"That Members receive an update at every monthly meeting of this council on the status of 
each motion that is passed by this council until the content of the motion has been followed 
through or reached its endpoint." 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Forde and seconded by L. Kelly.  

The County Secretary pointed out that while most Motions are relatively straightforward to 
bring into effect, more complex Motions require detailed consideration by the Executive 
before being carried out, and of course the outcome of that consideration process should 
be advised to the Members in due course 

The Motion was put to a roll-call vote and the outcome of that vote was as follows: 

Page 8 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.06.21 

Monthly Meeting of WCC 14th June, 2021 - Motion 8.9 - Outcome of Roll Call Vote 

BARDEN 

PAT 

AB  FARRELL 

MARY 

F  MURPHY 

MAURA 
ANDREW 
PIP 
AIDAN 
CATHAL 
GER 
JIM 

JOHN 
FLEMING 
F 
TOM 
F 
FORDE 
JOHN 
F  HEGARTY 
F  HYNES 
DAVID 
A   KAVANAGH  WILLIE 
F  KELLY 
F  KENNY 

BELL 
BOLGER 
BREEN 
BROWNE 
BYRNE 
CARTHY 
CODD 
CODD-
NOLAN 
CONNICK 
DEVEREUX  DIARMUID  AB  MCDONALD  LISA 
JIM 
DONOHOE  ANTHONY  A  MOORE 

KATHLEEN 

ANTHONY 

LAWLOR 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

F 

F 

GEORGE 

LEONARD 
DONAL 

BARBARA-
ANNE 
BRIDIN 
JOHN 

F  MURPHY 
F  O’ROURKE 
AB  O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 
AB  OWENS 
F 
F 
F 

JACKSER 
MICHAEL 
 FRANK 
JOE 

SHEEHAN 
STAPLES 
SULLIVAN 

F  WALSH 

OLIVER 

F  WHELAN 
F 
A  

MICHAEL 

F 

AB 
AB 
F 
AB 
F 
A  
F 

A  

F 

F = For, A = Against, AB = Absent /Abstain 

The Motion was declared carried on a vote of 22 votes in favour and 5 against 

The hour being past 6pm, the Cathaoirleach thanked all for their attendance and declared the 
meeting closed, with the remaining Agenda items deferred to the July meeting.  

Daingithe ar an           lá de  lúil, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr. Ger Carthy 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Anita McLoughlin 
A/County Secretary 

Page 9 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
