County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 8th October, 2018 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton;  
J. Moore; 
L. McDonald;  
M. Roche; 
T. Walsh; 

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
J. Fleming;    
P. Kavanagh; 
B.A. Murphy;  
L. O’Brien;  
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe;   
J. Hegarty; 
W. Kavanagh;   
M. Murphy; 
O. O’Connell;  
J. Sullivan;  

K. Codd-Nolan;  
T. Forde; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor;  
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin; 
O. Walsh; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services;  
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  
Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing.  

Apologies:   

Councillors M. Farrell; J. O’Rourke; F. Staples. 

At  the  outset  the  Cathaoirleach  proposed  that  the  discussion  on  rural  Ireland  which  had 
been proposed for the October 2018 Meeting would now take place at the November 2018 
Meeting of the Council. 

The Cathaoirleach also advised that Glenn Carr, General Manager, Rail Freight, Rosslare 
Europort, will attend the November 2018 County Council meeting. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1  County Council Meeting – 10th September, 2018. 
1.2  Budget Working Group – 1st October, 2018.  

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  P.  Breen  and  agreed  by  all,  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meetings as outlined above.  

Matters arising from the Minutes – On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan seconded by 
Cllr.  O.  Walsh,  it  was  agreed  that  a  civic  reception  be  afforded  to  Patrick  Prendergast, 
Provost, Trinity College, Dublin. 

1 

 
 
                                                                             
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Members also complimented the Council Staff on the work done in organising the Market 
House Festival in Gorey. 

County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Emma Mhic Mhathúna - it was proposed that a letter be sent to her family 

expressing the Council’s sympathy. 

  The  family  of  Kathleen  Walsh,  Wexford  Town,  who  was  a  Member  of  the  London 

Wexford Association. 

  The family of Pat O’Rourke, Glynn, Barntown. 

Cllr.  J.  Moore  advised  that  this  year  was  the  100th  anniversary  of  the  loss  at  sea  of  500 
people on the R.M.S. Leinster, which was torpedoed and sank in the Irish Sea.  He noted 
that  two  former  Councillors  –  John  S.  Hearn  and  Thomas  L.  Esmonde  perished  at  the 
tragic event.  

Sympathy  was  also  expressed  for  three  families  who  lost  loved  ones  recently  -  Lawless 
family, Stamp family and Dempsey family. 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Rebecca  Carter,  Student,  who  recently  won  her  High  Court  case  regarding  her 
exam results – letter of support and congratulations for her honesty and courage. 

  Faythe Harriers who recently won the U15 and U17 hurling championships. 
  Ger Mackey and his staff in Community and the District Managers for their work in 

securing €1.3m for the Town and Village Renewal Programme 2018. 

  The organisers of the Celtic Woman event held recently in Johnstown Castle. 
  The  new  County  Senior  Camogie  Champions,  St.  Martins  –  Cllr.  L.  McDonald 
proposed  that  a  civic  reception  be  held  to  celebrate  the  Wexford  Camogie  Team 
who won the All Ireland in 1968.  The Cathaoirleach advised that preparations were 
underway to have a Civic Reception for the camogie team, the senior team and the 
minor team who all were successful in 1968. 

  Naomh Eanna and Oylegate who reached the County Final. 
  Paul  McCloskey  on  his  recent  success  in  the  London  Contemporary  Arts 

competition. 

  Kitty  Hynes  who  has  given  50  years  of  service  to  St.  Vincent  de  Paul  –  it  was 

agreed that a letter be sent to her to congratulate her on her years of service. 
  Eamon Cleary whose greyhound, Ballyanne Sim won the Irish Greyhound Derby. 
  The Horseshoe Club in Bunclody who won the All-Ireland Horseshoe title. 

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Proposed disposal of a site at Clonard Litte, Wexford.  
2.2 Proposed disposal of a site at Killagoley, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy, the proposed disposals, 
as submitted to the meeting, were approved. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

3.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1 LAC 1804 – Proposed development of flood attenuation works encompassing 
construction of a soil berm, attenuation area, replacement surface water drainage 
pipework and a fenced enclosure of the attenuation area at Wexford Racecourse, 
Newtown Road, Wexford.  

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that this was a minor flood protection 
measure.   

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the proposed 
development, as submitted to the meeting, was approved.  

4.  Rebuilding Ireland – WCC Social Housing Progress Report 

Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing, advised the Members that this was a 3 monthly 
update on the progress of the Council’s housing programme, as agreed at a previous 
meeting.  He advised Members that the new build is coming online and it is proposed 
to reduce acquisitions as the new builds ramp up.  He also advised that Part V 
properties will be coming online.   

A wide ranging discussion then took place with regard to the housing programme 
dealing with a number of issues including the following: 

the rent supplement,  

 
  HAP,  
  buying second hand houses and its effect on the market,  
 
 

the reliance on approved housing bodies,  
the lack of single houses in rural Ireland.  It was agreed that the lack of housing in 
rural Ireland would be part of the review agreed earlier in the meeting to take place 
at the November 2018 Meeting of the Council.  

  Sewerage capacity in villages,  
  derelict houses and CPO’s,  
 
 
 
 

lack of emergency accommodation,  
length of time taken to allocate houses,  
refurbishment of houses,  
the measures proposed in the national budget 2018 to speed up the process of 
building new houses by Local Authorities,  
the percentage of people transferring from the rental scheme to HAP,  
the emphasis on the private market,  
the need to build more social housing,  

 
 
 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, advised that the Planning Department has identified 
a number of derelict houses for the CPO programme and are prioritising these 
properties for each District at present.  Councillors should email details any potential 
derelict houses to the Director for consideration.   

Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing, advised that an application has been made to the 
Department for approval for 7 units in Westlands to be used for emergency 
accommodation.   

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

The Chief Executive paid tribute to Mr. J. Carley and Mr. P. O’Gorman and all the 
Housing Staff for meeting and exceeding their targets.  He also advised that the 
Department had advised that there was no shortage of finance for housing and that 
WCC will keep on providing houses as required.   

With regard to housing in rural areas, the Chief Executive advised that towns and 
villages where water and sewerage is already available, should be part of the housing 
programme. 

5.  Traveller Accommodation Programme 2019-2024 

Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing, advised that the memo from the Director, as 
circulated, set out the timeframe and a summary of implementation of the Traveller 
Accommodation Programme.  It is anticipated that the adoption of the Programme will 
take place in July 2019, followed by the implementation of the Programme itself.  

A wide ranging discussion then took place with regards to a number of issues/views set 
out below: 

  The refusal of traveller families to move into newly constructed houses in Tipperary  

 

because there were no stables or land for their horses 
Illegal encampments in Gorey and Courtown over the summer and the problems 
that it caused for local businesses. 

  Rights and responsibilities of Council tenants and the need to deal with illegal 

encampments as part of the Programme. 

  The need for the Council to have a balanced view with regards to the Programme, 

noting that all anti-social behaviour is not coming from the travelling community and 
the Council’s role to help integrate traveller families into the wider community. 

15.27 p.m. – Cllr. T. Forde arrived. 

6.  WCC Housing Tenant Handbook  

Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing, advised that the Tenant Handbook would be 
distributed to all tenants of WCC as part of the move of some of the housing services to 
the Customer Services Unit. 

Members raised a number of concerns including the following: 

  The need to strengthen the anti-social behavior provisions for tenants, including 

provisions re the tenant’s responsibility to dispose of household refuse and to stop 
the accumulation of refuse in Council houses 

  The need for carbon monoxide alarms in all of the Council’s houses which had been 
agreed at a previous meeting. Cllr. B. A. Murphy sought a report on the current 
position with regard to the implementation of this initiative. 

  The difficulty for elderly tenants in dealing with some of the maintenance that they 

are expected to carry out e.g. painting and repairs interior doors 

  The inclusion of the Children and Young People’s Services website in the Contacts 

Section of the Handbook (www.cypsc.ie) 

  The inclusion of an appendix dealing with controlled breeds of dogs. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

  Proposals that new tenants should meet for a session with MABS to discuss their 

finances.  

  The cost of cleaning up the halting site in New Ross and the need for a full time 

caretaker in the halting site. 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, answered a number of queries raised by the 
Members.  He advised that a carbon monoxide programme is in place and will report 
back to the Council at a later date regarding the current position.   

The Director also advised that the anti-social behavior unit is now in place in housing.  
He agreed to look at the wording of the provisions and book regarding anti-social 
behavior with regard to tying tenancies to the new Waste Bye-laws. He advised that the 
new waste bye-laws are expected to be in place early in 2019. 

7.  Annual Service Delivery Plan Quarter 3 2018  

Mr.  E.  Taaffe,  Director  of  Services,  presented  the  plan  and  advised  Members  to  contact 
him directly if there were any queries.   

The Members noted the quarterly results.  

Matters  arising  –  a  question  arose  with  regard  to  the  Council  providing  land  for  the 
Women’s Refuge.    The  Chief  Executive  explained  the  current  position  with  regard  to  the 
Women’s  Refuge  and  it  was  agreed  that  an  update  on  the  Women’s  Refuge  should  be 
included in the Quarter 4. 

8.  Section 183 Procedure for Sale of Repossessed/Surrendered Mortgage 

Properties 

A letter had been circulated to the Members setting out the issues involved in the change 
of procedure for Section 183’s for repossessed and surrendered mortgages. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan the policy was agreed 
following a vote in which 20 of the Members voted in favour and 8 voted against. 

9.  Report of Corporate Policy Group  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien the Report of Corporate 
Policy Group of 1st October, 2018 was approved by the meeting.  

Matters arising from the Corporate Policy Group Minutes – discussion took place with 
regards to the naming of a Minister in a motion rather than the Office of the Minister.  
Following discussion it was agreed on the proposal of Cllr. L. O’Brien seconded by Cllr. M. 
Sheehan that this issue will be sent to the Protocol Committee for discussion. 

10. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
including the following: 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

  The Chief Executive to contact the GAA regarding parking at Wexford Park.  It was 

agreed that this matter be dealt with by Borough District of Wexford. 

  Make Way Day – it was agreed that this item be brought up at the Borough District 

of Wexford Meeting. 

  Dangerous junction at Ballycarney 
  Concern for the Gorey District with regards to the Roads budget 
  Dumping on roadsides/littering 
  Closing date for the New Ross Technical building 
  Rosslare/Waterford Greenway 
  Rapid Response Crews for litter 
  Traffic problems on the Ardcavan to Castlebridge road 
  The upgrading of public lighting in rural areas 
  Bye-laws for illegal camping 
  Putting up barriers on Council properties 
  Habitual complainers in planning  
  New Ross Advance Factory 
  Economic rejuvenation of John Street in New Ross  
  Gorey Market House 
  Public lighting on footpath to Ardamine 
  The waiving of charges for letters for community groups  
  Enniscorthy by-pass 
  Funding  for  the  roads  approaching  the  new  motorway  which  have  been  damaged 

during the construction of the Enniscorthy By-pass. 

11.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

The  list  of  Councillors’  Conferences  and  Training  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan, 
seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all. 

12. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne, and agreed by all the 
Members present, the following minutes were noted and approved: 

12.1 Gorey Municipal District Meeting 17.07.18 
12.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 11.07.18 
12.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 16.07.18 
12.4 Special Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 15.08.18 
12.5 Protocol Committee Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 28.08.18 
12.6 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 16.07.18 
12.7 Planning & Building Control SPC 04.04.18 

13. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted.  

14. Correspondence and Communications 

The following correspondence was noted by the Members: 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

  Acknowledgment from the Private Secretary to the Minister for Housing, Planning 
and Local Government, in relation to letter in connection with the loan to value 
ration under the Rebuilding Ireland Home Loan. 

  Acknowledgment from An Post. 
  Correspondence from An Post. 
  Acknowledgement from the Office of the Minister for Communications, Climate 

Action and Environment. 

  Acknowledgment from the Office of the Minister for Transport, Tourism & Sport. 

15. Deferred Notice of Motion: 

15.1 Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That this Council calls for the inclusion to the completion M11 motorway from 
Oylegate to Rosslare in the National Planning Framework 2040”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and 
agreed by all. It was further agreed that the motion be sent to the Taoiseach, Minister 
for Transport and Minister for Finance. 

15.2 Cllr. Tom Forde 

"In light of the concerns raised by the Construction Industry Federation and many 
unpaid sub-contractors I request that a representative of Wexford's building compliance 
section is present at the next meeting of Wexford County Council to explain the 
council's role in the process and that an invitation is also extended to Sean Downey, 
Director of Specialist Contracting with the CIF, to hear the very serious concerns that 
he has raised regarding the certification of buildings". 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen.  
Following discussion, Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, stated that he is satisfied that 
all procedures have been followed in this particular case and WCC is satisfied that the 
building has been built according to the building regulations.  The Council has also 
written to CIF but has received no response.  The Director also advised that if CIF were 
to organise a meeting that he would be happy to attend. 

Cllr. T. Forde who had proposed the motion accepted the suggestion to attend a 
meeting with the CIF.  Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, finished up by saying that the 
building has been certified, is now in use and is working effectively. 

15.3 Cllr. Mick Roche 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Justice to develop mechanisms to gather 
and publish data on the prosecution of discriminatory crime and to introduce bespoke 
hate crime legalisation. Taking into account there is no way of recording that an 
offender has committed a hate crime in our existing legislative jurisdiction or there is no 
certainty that a hate motivation crime will be presented in court”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Roche seconded by Cllr. T. Walsh and 
agreed by all. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

15.4 Cllr. Oisin O’Connell 

“In the interests of transparency and accountability: policy documents adopted by 
Elected Members of this Council will be archived online permanently - in an accessible 
manner for the public”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. O. O’Connell seconded by Cllr. F. O’ 
Súilleabháin.  Following discussion it was agreed that the motion will be held over until 
the next meeting to allow Council Officials to check the cost of carrying out the motion.   

The Cathaoirleach then proposed, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, to suspend Standing 
Orders to allow the meeting to continue until 6.00 p.m. 

15.5 Cllr. David Hynes 

“In January, Independent Senator Frances Black launched the Control of Economic 

Activities (Occupied Territories) Bill 2018, and the bill returns to Seanad Éireann on 

Wednesday 11th July 2018.  

The bill seeks to prohibit the import and sale of goods, services and natural resources 

originating in illegal settlements in occupied territories. Such settlements are illegal 

under both international humanitarian law and domestic Irish law, and result in human 

rights violations on the ground. Despite this, Ireland provides continued economic 

support through trade in settlement goods.  

The legislation has been prepared with the support of Trócaire, Christian-Aid and the 

Irish Congress of Trade Unions (ICTU), and applies to settlements in occupied 

territories where there is clear international legal consensus that they violate 

international law. The clearest current example is the Israeli occupation and expansion 
of settlements in the Palestinian ‘West Bank’, which have been repeatedly condemned 
as illegal by the UN, EU, the International Court of Justice and the Irish Government.  

I call on this council to support this bill and lobby to have to passed when it comes 
before the  Dail”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and 
agreed by all.   

15.6 Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That the Executive be requested to prepare a report setting out the planning statistics, 
showing the comparisons of Wexford County Council against national averages to 
include validations, decisions (grant/ refuse), further information requests”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan.  
Cllr. L. McDonald withdrew the motion given that the Director has already compiled the 
report called for in the motion.  Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, then distributed the 
report to the meeting. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

15.7 Cllr. Oisin O’Connell 

“Any Council vehicles undergoing detailing (as newly acquired, or for rework 
maintenance) with council branding, will have alternating English and Irish language on 
either side; and/or, where practical, similar balance will be achieved front and back”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. O. O’Connell seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen and 
agreed by all.  The Chief Executive agreed that it would be done on a pilot basis 
beginning with any new vehicles acquired by the Council.  

16. Notices of Motion: 

16.1 Cllr. M. Byrne 

“That, as a matter of procedure, Wexford County Council, in considering whether to 
nominate a candidate for the Presidency of Ireland in future contests, shall require that 
any person wishing to address the Council shall have been proposed and seconded by 
members of the Council to invite them to so do.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and 
agreed by all.   

Cllr. M. Byrne advised that he wished to change the Standing Orders so that persons 
wishing to stand for the role of President and to address the Council must have a 
proposer and seconder to be allowed to address the Council.  Such a proposal must be 
made in writing in advance of the meeting.    

16.2 Cllr. G. Lawlor 

“Following the example of Dublin City Council in recognising that period poverty is a 
real issue for women in low income households, Wexford Co. Council agrees to have 
free sanitary products available in the toilets of all Council buildings, including council 
offices, swimming pools and libraries”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald.  It 
was agreed that the measure in the motion would be piloted in the Libraries.  

16.3 Cllr. T. Forde 

"I call on Wexford County Council to write to the Minister of State at the Department of 
Finance and the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform with special 
responsibility for financial services and insurance, expressing dissatisfaction with 
barriers preventing those who are sick or have a certified illness from obtaining some 
form of an affordable life insurance policy, which is a prerequisite for mortgage 
approval. This Council calls on the Minister to act to address existing restrictions." 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and 
agreed by all.  The motion is to be forwarded to Minister of State Michael D’Arcy.  

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.10.18 

16.4 Cllr. M. Sheehan 

“That this Council agrees to invite a representative from the Health Service Executive 
to discuss the provision and coverage of GP services in County Wexford and to 
discuss the contingency plans to maintain the service replacing those retiring within the 
next five years”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy.  
Cllr. Carthy amended the motion to include the “HSE and Caredoc”, which was 
accepted and agreed by all.   

16.5 Cllr. M. Sheehan 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Communications, Climate Action and 
Environment, to conduct a fundamental  review of the Pay by Weight Regulations to 
ensure fairness and transparency for consumers and while this review is conducted, 
the mandatory introduction is postponed and more options including the returning the 
service under the Local Authorities is considered”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and 
agreed by all.  

16.6 Referred from Members of Gorey Municipal District 

“That Wexford County Council review the Scheme of Letting Priorities and that greater 
priority be given to families on the Housing List in excess of 7 years”. 

The above motion was proposed by the Members of Gorey Municipal District.  Cllr. J. 
Hegarty withdrew the motion and it was agreed that Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing, 
would discuss the matter with the Gorey District at their next meeting. 

19. Any Other Business   

None.  

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Samhain, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
