County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 10th February 2025 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Forde  

Tom 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Barron 

Boland 

Vicky 

Nicky 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Rourke 

John 

Kehoe 

Pat 

Owens 

Jackser 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Shannon 

Raymond 

Carthy 

Codd 

Ger 

Jim 

Kenny 

Laffan 

Donal 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Garry 

Staples 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

McDonald 

Darragh 

Staples 

Doyle 

Dwyer 

Farrell 

Craig 

John 

Mary 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Sullivan 

Joe 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Walsh 

Walsh 

Catherine  

Oliver 

Fleming 

John 

Murphy 

Marty 

Officials: 

Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. S. Howell, A/Director of Services 
Ms. L. Lacey, Director of Finance 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: There were no apologies recorded. 

Page 1 of 11 

Frank  

Robbie 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of Imelda Kirby, mother of Vanessa Kirby, Library Service. 
•  The family of Marie Quirke Fairbairn, sister of Tony Quirke, Executive Engineer, Housing 

Department. 

•  The family of Peter Foxe, brother of Caroline Foxe, Housing Section. 
•  The family of Jason (Jay) Kehoe, Wexford Town. 
•  The family of Anna Gaffney (née Doran), Ballygalvert, Ballywilliam. 
•  The family of Carmel McCormack (née Kavanagh) Millhouse, Newtown Commons, New 

Ross. 

•  The family of Pat Murphy, Ballyrankin, Bunclody. 

Congratulations: 

Cllr.’s J. Owens, J. Codd, G. Carthy, O. Walsh, M. Farrell, M. Sheehan, B.A. Murphy, and P. 
Kavanagh congratulated James Browne on being appointed Minister for Housing, Local 
Government and Heritage. 
Cllr.’s J. Owens, J. Codd, G. Carthy, O. Walsh, M. Farrell, M. Sheehan, B.A. Murphy, and P. 
Kavanagh congratulated Cathal Byrne on his election to Seanad Éireann. 
Cllr. J. Codd congratulated outgoing chairman of Wexford IFA Jer O’Mahony on his contribution. 
Cllr. J. Codd congratulated Ms. Helen Meehan on her impending retirement from the Housing 
department. 
Cllr. G. Carthy congratulated Director of Services Mr. Eamonn Hore on the Wexford e-scooter 
project being nominated for a national LAMA award. 
Cllr.’s J. Dwyer, O. Walsh, M. Farrell, M. Sheehan, B.A. Murphy, and P. Kavanagh congratulated 
Cllr. B. Murphy on being appointed to the European Committee of the Regions. 
Cllr. M. Sheehan congratulated Deputy G. Lawlor on being appointed the Labour Enterprise, 
Tourism and Employment spokesperson. 
Cllr.’s O. Walsh, B.A. Murphy, and P. Kavanagh congratulated Cllr. D. McDonald and his wife on the 
birth of their son. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1  County Council Meeting 13th January, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan the Council resolved to 
confirm the minutes of the County Council Meeting on 13th January, 2025. 

Matters Arising: 
Cllr. A.R. O’Brien advised that her name was omitted from the list of members to sit on the 
mental health working group. Mr. M. Drea apologised for the oversight and agreed to 
amend the minutes accordingly. 

Cllr. G. Carthy noted that three applications have been made to Wexford County Council to 
repurpose properties in Killinick, Tagoat, and Rosslare Harbour for IPAS use. Cllr. Carthy 
noted that the Tagoat application was withdrawn. He said the communities of Rosslare 

Page 2 of 11 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

Harbour, Kilrane and Tagoat have already hosted numerous international protection 
applicants and raised serious concerns about the fairness of any further centres in the area. 
Cllr. Carthy noted that the two properties which are the subject of applications are 
currently and have always been residential properties. Cllr. F. Staples highlighted the lack 
of services in the area making it unsuitable for further centres. 

Cllr. A. Browne raised serious concerns in relation to a proposed IPAS centre in 
Templeshannon. Cllr. Browne outlined his belief that an IPAS centre shouldn’t be located in 
Templeshannon as it is an area of economic deprivation. Cllr. P. Kavanagh raised concerns 
and sought investment in the area. Cllr. B.A. Murphy felt the proposal would lead to an 
intensification of deprivation. Cllr. J. Owens also expressed his concern. 

Cllr. T. Forde agreed with some of the concerns raised but felt care needed to be taken in 
relation to some of the language and views which were being expressed. Cllr.’s C. Walsh 
and V. Barron disassociated themselves from some of the comments in relation to single 
male migrants. Cllr. J. Codd said he was embarrassed by comments online referring to 
arson attacks on IPAS centres. 

2.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001 : 

2.1 Intention to dispose of property at Ard na Gaoithe, Whiterock, Wexford. 
 On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at Ard na Gaoithe, Whiterock, Wexford, in accordance with the terms 
set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.2 Intention to lease property at Castlebridge, Co. Wexford. 
 On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. R. Staples the Council resolved to lease 
property at Castlebridge, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated.  

2.3 Intention to allow for provision of wayleave at Tagoat, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien the Council resolved to 
to allow for provision of wayleave at Tagoat, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set 
out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

3. 

Report of Proposed Material Contravention of the Gorey Town and Environs Local Area 
Plan 2017-2023 (as extended to 2026). 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Council resolved to 
approve the material contravention of the Gorey Town and Environs Local Area Plan 2017-
2023 (as extended to 2026) in respect of planning register No. 20240797 for the 
development of a service station, as circulated. 

4. 

Audit Committee Annual Reports 

4.1 Consideration by the Audit Committee of the Audited Financial Statement (AFS) for    

2023 and the Local Government Auditor’s Statutory Report on the accounts of Wexford 
County Council for 2023. 

Page 3 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

4.2 Wexford County Council Audit Committee Annual Report 2024 
4.3 Audit Committee Work Programme 2025. 

The Members noted the Audit Committee reports. 

5. 

Invitation to Le Cotentin fete I’Irlande Festival March 2025 

Ms. L. Hore circulated an invitation for two Councillors to attend the Le Cotentin fete 
I’Irlande Festival in March 2025. Ms. Hore advised that the Council has previously approved 
a delegation to travel but she is now seeking the names of those Councillors who will be 
travelling. 

Cllr. G. Laffan was nominated on the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. J. 
Owens. 

Cllr. P. Kehoe was nominated on the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. F. Staples. 

6. 

Nomination of Sectoral Interest to SPC's 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council resolved to 
appoint the following sectoral interests to the Strategic Policy Committees: 

ICTU Nominations  
Economic Development & Enterprise – Kevin Melinn (Fórsa)  
Transportation and Water Services – Emer Ward (INMO)  
Housing – Michael Wall (SIPTU)  
Community & Rural Affairs – Michael Wall (SIPTU)  
Climate Change, Environment & Biodiversity – Joe Ryan (ASTI)  
Planning & Building Control – Sean Joyce (Fórsa)  

IFA Nominations  
Economic Development & Enterprise – John Kelly  
Community & Rural Affairs – Elizabeth McDonald  
Climate Change, Environment & Biodiversity – Jer O’Mahony  
Planning & Building Control – Ned Lyng  

CIF Nominations  
Economic Development & Enterprise – Michael Bennett  
Transportation and Water Services – Brian Byrne  
Housing – Daniel Nichol  
Climate Change, Environment & Biodiversity – John Doyle  
Planning & Building Control – Anthony Neville  

Chambers Ireland Nominations  
Economic Development & Enterprise – Paula Roche & Ernest Levingston  
Transportation and Water Services – Brendan Crowley  
Climate Change, Environment & Biodiversity – Mary Walsh  
Planning & Building Control – Mary Browne 

Page 4 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Request that the possibility of decoupling the active travel element from the M11/M25 
project be explored to establish if there is viability in the active travel components being 
provided on the existing road. The hope is this would enable the M11/M25 to progress 
more quickly. 

•  The Roads staff were commended for their efficiency in erecting new speed limit 

signage. 

•  Query if speed limits on local roads can be reviewed by the local authority. 
•  Will additional funding be available for roads with the abolition of the national 2:1 ratio 

of expenditure between new public transport infrastructure and new roads? 

•  When will roads budget for Wexford be available? 
•  The Roads crews were commended for their work in the aftermath of storm Éowyn. 
•  Query if a list of vulnerable individuals can be drawn up in consultation with other 

bodies in light of the fallout around the country from storm Éowyn. 

•  The potential of getting the Heritage Officer involved in a project to save the priory. 
•  Request for increased access to the Cornmarket service for clients. 
•  How many exemptions issued for XL Bullies? How many have been euthanised? How 

many XL Bullies in Wexford? 

•  Request that Wexford County Council do as much as it can to deal with coastal erosion 

in areas where homes are at risk. 

•  Request for report on taking in charge for the Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District 

outlining dates of application, timelines and estimated costs. 

•  Request that Wexford County Council up the ante in relation to the odour issue at 

Ballyminaun as recent investment has done little to reduce the smell. 

•  News that Cumas are to become the anchor tenant in St. Josephs, New Ross was 

welcomed. Query if further groups will be able to use the facility also. 

•  Cllr. T. Forde proposed a special housing meeting, which was seconded by Cllr. A.R. 

O’Brien. It was requested that there be no presentations at the special housing meeting. 

•  Request that senior department representatives attend Municipal District meetings. 
•  View expressed that Rosslare Municipal District is seriously behind other districts in 

relation to housing supply. 

•  Update sought in relation to Kilmore Quay houses which are listed as subject to funding. 
•  Timeline for completion of works to improve privacy measures in housing. 
•  Timeline for establishment of Local Community Safety Partnership (LCSP)? 
•  Has Wexford County Council been in contact with the IDA in relation to the BNY Mellon 

site? 

•  Does Wexford County Council have any sense of the vulnerability or otherwise of the 

ESB network in County Wexford. 

•  Could the decoupling of the active travel from the M11/M25 project potentially open up 

unintended consequences of leaving the project susceptible to judicial review? 

•  Cllr. M. Sheehan recorded that he is a member of the board of Cumas. 
•  View expressed that it is very difficult to get two health care professionals to sign a 

HMD1 form.  

Page 5 of 11 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

•  View expressed that the rules around overcrowding need to be reviewed. 
•  Update sought on the energy retrofit programme. 
•  Request that a letter be sent to the regulator seeking a review of the mobile network 

coverage in County Wexford. 

•  Request that an update be sought from the Department in relation to night time 

economy officers. 

•  Is there a backup system if a family is without power for a prolonged period? 
•  Request that housing clinics be re-introduced. 
•  Frustration expressed that when an applicant applies through the choice based letting 

portal, they aren’t informed if they are unsuccessful. 

•  Is there any plan to inspect and identify trees which are dangerous due to ash dieback? 
•  Is the regeneration of Templeshannon a live project? 
•  Is Wexford County Council opening an office in the Enniscorthy Technology Park? What 

are the set-up costs? 

•  What is the plan for the old courthouse in Enniscorthy? 
•  Mr. E. Hore and Ms. L. Hore were thanked for their assistance in addressing issues in 

Ardcolm Drive. 

•  Can we get specific costs for an additional road gritter to be considered at the 2025 

Budget meeting? 

•  View expressed that there should be a countywide policy on speed bumps. 
•  Request for public consultation with business owners on Esmonde St. prior to any works 

commencing. 

•  Is there an SLA in place for the management of public lighting and is this being 

monitored for compliance? 

•  Is it possible to get a map outlining the roads impacted by the new speed limits? 
•  Wexford County Council thanked for the establishment of community hubs in the 

aftermath of storm Éowyn. 

•  Query in relation to an estate which is in the process of being taken in charge but there 

are conflicting views in relation to the adequacy of the sewerage system. 

•  Timeline for a coastal erosion strategy for the County. 
•  Has anything been done to facilitate the use of cctv for illegal dumping? 
•  Request that those who have to leave RAS through no fault of their own get credit for 

their time in RAS. 

•  Report on anti-social behaviour requested outlining what Wexford County Council are 

doing about it and timelines. 

•  How long does it take to get an individual well grant paid? 
•  Request that at least 40% of the properties in the PPP bundle for Bunclody be sold as 

affordable units. 

•  Update sought on Clohamon junction. 
•  How many crash beds are provided during bad weather? How many are used on 

average? Are they all in Wexford town? Do we need more? 

•  Will the Mechanics Institute be a community hub or will it be used by just one group? 

Mr. E. Taaffe outlined the following proposed changes to the directorates: 

➢  Assign Environment to Mr. E. Hore – with effect from 17th February 

Page 6 of 11 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

➢  Assign Rural Water to the Environment Department – with effect from 17th 

February  

➢  Assign Health & Safety to Corporate – timeline to be confirmed 
➢  Assign Integration Unit to Community – timeline to be confirmed 

Mr. E. Taaffe informed the Council that Ms. Jackie Carroll will commence as Director of 
Services in late March and will have responsibility for Corporate Services, Capital 
Development Programme, and Health and Safety. 

Mr. Taaffe thanked Mr. S. Howell and Ms. A. Byrne for their significant contribution during 
their time as Acting Director of Services. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

Cllr.’s J. Dwyer, L. Kelly, J. O’Rourke, and J. Owens left the meeting at this point. 

8. 

Minutes of CPG 

8.1 Minutes of CPG Meeting 4th February, 2025 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny the Council resolved to 
adopt the minutes of the CPG Meeting on 4th February, 2025. 

9. 

Minutes of Meetings (for Noting): 

9.1 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 17th December, 2024 
9.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 11th December, 2024 
9.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 16th December, 2024 
9.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 17th December, 2024 
9.5 Rosslare Municipal District – 18th December, 2024 

 The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

10. 

Correspondence and Communications 

10.1 Email from Private Secretary to Minister Butler re: motion dated 10th January, 2025 
10.2 Letter from Roscommon County Council re motion dated 17th January, 2025 
10.3 Update provided by the HSE to Regional Health Forum members on capital projects in 

the Wexford/Waterford area. 

 The Members noted the correspondence, as circulated. 

Cllr. J. Fleming circulated a report from the HSE outlining capital projects in the 
Wexford/Waterford area. Cllr. Fleming said he or any of his fellow Regional Health Forum 
members are happy to bring any issues the Councillors may have to the Regional Health 
Forum for discussion. 

Mr. M. Drea read out correspondence received from Deputy Verona Murphy. 

Page 7 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cllr.’s R. Shannon, A.R. O’Brien, and T. Forde expressed their disappointment with Minister 
Butler’s response in relation to the provision of 24-hour mental health care in Wexford.   

County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

11. 

Councillor's Conferences and Training 

List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

11.1 
Training 
2nd – 3rd April ‘25 

AILG Annual Training Conference, Limerick Strand Hotel. 
Fee €175 per attendee. 

Various dates   

AILG Training Programme 2025 (dates/locations attached)  

Conference 
7th – 9th March  ‘25 

Celtic Conferences – “Health Services Entitlements”, 
Carlingford, Co. Louth. Fee €130 per attendee. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan the Council resolved to 
approve attendance at the above training and conference. 

11.2 Councillors Conference Report 
· Report of Cllr. D. Kenny who attended Celtic Conferences “Health Service Entitlements” 
held in December 2024. 

The Members noted the report. 

12. 

Notices of Motion 

12.1 Cllr. John Fleming 
“I am calling on Wexford County Council environment section, when going to inspect 
businesses that they contact the owners to arrange a suitable time for access to streamline 
the process and for health and safety reasons. “ 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and agreed by all. 

12.2 Cllrs. M. Sheehan, L. Kelly, B. Murphy, M. Farrell, C. Walsh 
“In an effort to promote greater input and efficiency at the plenary Council meetings, this 
Council agrees to a Special Protocol meeting to discuss improvements on making meetings 
more productive; and to accept proposals from elected members, stakeholders and the 
executive on changes to the agenda items, standing orders, protocols and other areas for 
consideration to make meetings effective. Upon adoption, this Council would agree the 
outcomes for implementation from the next AGM.” 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed by 
all. 

12.3 Cllr. Aoife Rose O’Brien 
"To ask this council to write to the Irish Blood Transfusion Service requesting regular Blood 
Donating Services in each district, recognising that blood supplies are currently at a critical 

Page 8 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

low, ensuring accessibility for all communities is arranged, recognising the urgent need for 
such." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. C. Doyle and agreed by all. 

12.4 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"Wexford County Council welcomes the extension of the School Meals Scheme to many 
schools across our county. However, in light of concerns by the HSE's National Clinical Lead 
For Childhood Obesity and other medical experts regarding ultra-processed foods, we ask 
the Ministers for Education and Health to provide much stronger regulation and oversight 
of these meals by their Departments to ensure that they are replaced by fresh and well-
balanced meals that encourage healthy eating habits and choices for children" 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien. 

Cllr. V. Barron supported the motion but sought an amendment to request that they do not 
delegate responsibility for nutritional value to boards of management. 

Cllr. J. Codd supported the motion but sought an amendment that ingredients should be 
sourced locally where possible. 

Cllr. T. Forde accepted the amendments, and the following motion was agreed by all: 

"Wexford County Council welcomes the extension of the School Meals Scheme to many 
schools across our county. However, in light of concerns by the HSE's National Clinical Lead 
for Childhood Obesity and other medical experts regarding ultra-processed foods, we ask 
the Ministers for Education and Health to provide much stronger regulation and oversight 
of these meals by their Departments to ensure that they are replaced by fresh and well-
balanced meals that encourage healthy eating habits and choices for children.  
We further ask that responsibility for the nutritional value of the meals not to be delegated 
to boards of management, and where possible ingredients should be sourced locally." 

12.5 Cllr. Paddy Kavanagh 
“This council calls on TII to provide parking at or near the M11 to facilitate daily commuters 
who carpool.” 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. P. Kavanagh and seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh. 

Cllr. D. McDonald proposed an amendment that the NTA provide bus stops at these 
parking areas to enable public transport companies to stop. This amendment was rejected 
by Cllr. P. Kavanagh as there are two separate bodies involved, TII and the NTA. 

The original motion was agreed by all. 

12.6 Cllr. Michael Sheehan 
“Recognising the lack of services and patchy medical coverage in parts of the County, this 
Council invites the Chief Executive of the HSE, Mr. Bernard Gloster or a senior 
representative to attend a meeting of the County Council to discuss the lack of GP 

Page 9 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

Coverage, Medical/ Support Services, Specific Therapists (OT, Speech, Physical, Language, 
Optical, Auditory, Mental Health etc.) and Carer Supports for people in Co. Wexford. “ 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. R. Shannon and agreed by 
all. 

Cllr. O. Walsh left the meeting at this point. 

12.7 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"We ask this council to write to the Minister for Housing requesting the introduction of a 
three year freeze on rents in the private rental market, beginning in 2025." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. C. Doyle. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that there would be a roll call vote on the motion. The outcome 
was the motion fell with nine in favour and seventeen against. The voting was as follows: 

Barden, Pat 

Barron, Vicky 

Boland, Nicky 

Breen, Pip 

Browne, 
Aidan 
Codd, Jim 

Donohoe, 
Anthony 
Doyle, Craig 

Farrell, Mary 

Fleming, John 

Forde, Tom 

A 

F 

A 

A 

A 

F 

A 

F 

F 

A 

F 

Kavanagh, Paddy 

Kehoe, Pat 

Kenny, Donal 

A 

A 

A 

Staples, Frank 

Staples, Robbie 

Sullivan, Joe 

Laffan, Garry 

A  Walsh, Catherine Biddy 

A 

A 

A 

F 

McDonald, Darragh 

Murphy,  Barbara 
Anne 
Murphy, Bridín 

-

Murphy, Marty 

O’Brien, Aoife Rose 

Shannon, Raymond 

Sheehan, Michael 

A 

A 

A 

A 

F 

F 

F 

13. 

Any Other Business 

Cllr. J. Codd raised the issue of vehicles being damaged due to overgrown hedges. In 
particular, mirrors are being broken on tractors, trucks and buses at great expense to the 
vehicle owner. Cllr. A. Donohoe agreed with Cllr. Codd and proposed that each District 
Engineer should take a trip around their district in an articulated truck to afford them the 
visual perspective of driving one of these vehicles. 

Page 10 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cllr. V. Barron highlighted upcoming parents’ workshops dealing with Emotionally Based 
School Avoidance (EBSA). These workshops aim to help parents to identify the early signs 
of EBSA & how to respond. 

County Council Meeting 10.02.25 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Márta, 2025. 

________________________  
Cllr. Ger Carthy 
Leas Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 11 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
