County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council held on Monday 11th March 2024 in the Council Chamber 
at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Pat  
(online) 
Maura  

Andrew  
(online) 
Pip 

Aidan 
(online) 

Cathal 

Ger 

Jim 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

Moore 

Jim 

Farrell 

Mary 

Murphy 

Forde  

Tom 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Hegarty  

John  

O’Rourke 

John 

Hynes 

David  

Ó’Súilleabháin 

Fionntáin 

Kavanagh 

Willie 

Owens 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Sheehan 

Kenny 

Donal 

Staples 

Jackser 
(online) 
Michael 
(online) 
Frank  

Kathleen 

Laffan 

Garry 

Sullivan 

Joe 

Anthony  
(online) 
Diarmuid 

Lawlor  

George 

Walsh 

 Oliver 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Whelan 

 Michael 

Barden 

Bell 

Bolger 

Breen 

Browne 

Byrne 

Carthy 

Codd 

Codd-
Nolan 
Connick 

Devereux 

Officials: 

Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Ms Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services  

Mr. Shay Howell, A/Director of Services 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

Ms. Lynda Lacey, A/Head of Finance 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: There were no apologies recorded. 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

•  The family of Una Roban, mother of Paula Roban, FOI Department. 

•  The family of Tom Sullivan, father of Tomas Sullivan, Harbour Constable. 

•  The family of Sean Reilly, father of Caroline Creane, Community Section. 

•  The  family  of  Catherine  (Kathleen)  Furness,  mother  of  Derek  Furness,  General  Operative,  New  Ross 

Municipal District. 

•  The family of Mary O' Neill, mother-in-law of Elaine Warren, Staff Officer, Credit Control. 

•  The family of Nick Sheridan, Dalmarnock, Glasgow, Scotland and formerly of Kilmuckridge and Kilcorral, 

Castlebridge, Co. Wexford. 

Congratulations: 

Cllr. M. Whelan offered congratulations to Cillian Murphy on being the first Irish born actor to win the Best 
Actor Award at the Oscars for his role in Oppenheimer. 

Cllr. J. Codd congratulated the Irish people for their choice in the recent referenda. 

Cllr. J. Owens congratulated Amy Redmond on winning the Ladies All-Ireland darts title. 

Cllr. J. Owens congratulated the Wexford Ladies team on winning the All-Ireland darts team final. 

Cllr. B. Murphy congratulated all those involved in securing Fleadh Cheoil na hÉireann for Wexford for 2025. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne it was agreed to suspend standing orders to 
allow Ger O’Mahony and Jackie Whelan Fagan of Wexford IFA address the meeting.  

Mr. O’Mahony thanked the Members for having them in the Chamber. He outlined the volume of paperwork 
required  to  be  completed  by  farmers  to  access  funds  and  the  financial  cost  of  making  a  mistake.  Mr. 
O’Mahony acknowledged the work done locally to agree a protocol for inspections and he thanked Ms. C. 
Godkin and her team for their involvement. He emphasised the importance of adopting a collaborative, co-
operative approach. Mr. O’Mahony offered to attend Municipal District meetings and /or Council meetings 
on a quarterly basis to discuss issues. 

 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

Ms. Whelan Fagan outlined the findings of a KPMG report which indicated that agriculture is worth €2.4bn 
to the Wexford economy. Mr. O’Mahony finished by asking the Members, the T.D.’s and MEP’s for their 
support. 

Cllr. A. Donohoe proposed that a cross party delegation meet the relevant Ministers, and this was seconded 
by Cllr. J. Fleming. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 

County Council Meeting 12th February, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald and seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Council resolved 
to confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 12th February 2024.  

Matters arising: 

Cllr. T. Forde raised the issue of deferred motions prohibiting Members from bringing forward new 
motions and he enquired if the issue had been discussed at a protocol meeting, as requested. Cllr. 
D. Hynes echoed Cllr. Forde’s sentiments. 

2. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1      Intention to dispose of property at 84 Ard Alainn, Castlebridge, Co. Wexford 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde the Council resolved to dispose 
of property at 84 Ard Alainn, Castlebridge, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out 
in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.2      Intention to lease the Community Centre at Bosheen, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to lease 
the Community Centre at Bosheen, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set 
out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning and 

Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1      LAC2314 – Proposed construction of 4 no. social housing units across 2 no. two storey 

buildings at Grogan’s Road, Wexford  

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by 

Cllr. M. Bell, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the construction of 4 no. social housing 

units across 2 no. two storey buildings at Grogan’s Road, Wexford in accordance with the terms of 

LAC2314, as circulated. 

3.2      LAC2315 - Permission for a mixed residential development of 3 no. dwellings to comprise 

of the proposed erection of 1 no. two storey 3-bedroom semi-detached dwelling, 1 no. 2-

bedroom apartment, 1 no. 1-bedroom apartment and associated parking spaces, vehicular access 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

with connection to existing local public mains services and all associated site works at 

Adamstown, Co Wexford 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by 

Cllr. B. Murphy, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for a mixed residential development of 3 

no. dwellings to comprise of the proposed erection of 1 no. two storey 3-bedroom semi-detached 

dwelling, 1 no. 2-bedroom apartment, 1 no. 1-bedroom apartment and associated parking spaces, 

vehicular access with connection to existing local public mains services and all associated site works 

at Adamstown, Co Wexford in accordance with the terms of LAC2315, as circulated. 

3.3       LAC2316 - Development of proposed Community Activity Garden with associated site 

works at St. John's Community Hospital, Munster Hill, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded 

by Cllr. K.C. Nolan, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for a development of proposed 

Community Activity Garden with associated site works at St. John's Community Hospital, Munster 

Hill, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford in accordance with the terms of LAC2316, as circulated. 

4. 

Draft New Ross Port Pilotage Bye-Laws 2024 for approval, in line with the Harbours Acts of 1996 

and 2015, as well as the Local Government Act of 2001. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy, the Council resolved to adopt the 
New Ross Port Pilotage Bye-Laws 2024, as outlined in the circulated memo. 

5. 

Draft Wexford County Council, New Ross Port Explosive Bye-Laws 2024, for approval in line with 
Sections 83 of the Harbours Act 1996 in exercise of the powers conferred on it by Section 34-38 of 
the Explosives Act 1875. (Approval to proceed to Public Consultation). 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore, the Council resolved to move to 
public consultation on the New Ross Port Explosive Bye-Laws 2024, as outlined in the circulated 
memo. 

6. 

Proposed Estate Naming Policy for Part XI Housing Schemes 

Mr. S. Howell circulated a proposed Estate Naming Policy for Wexford County Council own build 
housing estates which had been discussed at the Housing SPC. After a number of concerns were 
raised by the Members, Cathaoirleach J. Fleming decided to refer the policy back to the districts for 
their observations/comments. 

7. 

3 Year Capital Programme 2024 - 2026 

 
 
 
  
 
County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

Ms. L. Lacey circulated the 3-year capital programme 2024 – 2026 which set out at a high-level, 
projects which are due to progress subject to funding over that period. The Chief Executive and 
members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of queries from the Elected 
Members regarding the following: 

The cost of demolition works at Oyster Lane? 

Status of Crescent Quay dredging project. 
Status of Carrigfoyle project in light of tenders received. 

Is €50m funding for Enniscorthy Flood Relief Scheme still provided for? 
Investment in Gorey Market House, Esmonde St., and Gorey Town Park welcomed. 
Timeline for St. Waleran’s inner relief road? 

•  Concerns raised over the proportion of funding for the Rosslare Municipal District. 
•  Update on Ferndale gymnasium. 
• 
• 
•  Update on Gorey Market House proposed works. 
•  Request that Curracloe greenway be added to the list of projects. 
•  Request for funding for footpaths in rural areas through active travel. 
•  Request that Gorey to Courtown footpath be added to the list of projects. 
• 
•  Disappointment expressed that Oyster Lane project is now a longer-term project. 
•  Has private investment been secured for Trinity Wharf? 
• 
• 
• 
•  Disappointment expressed that there is only one project included for the Kilmuckridge LEA. 
• 
Timeline for Fethard Harbour Slipway. 
•  Query why advance factory isn’t included. 
•  Query what funding for Tech Park is in respect of. 
•  Request for extension to Ryland Road graveyard. 
•  Request that N80 be resurfaced all the way to Bunclody. 
•  No movement on connectivity for Enniscorthy North Business Park. 
•  Request that initial timelines for St. Waleran’s works be maintained. 
•  Request that rural footpaths be funded and included in 3-year plan. 
•  Clarification sought on spend on new phone system. 
•  Request that money be provided for the Athenaeum in Enniscorthy.  
•  Clarification sought on Murphy Floods expenditure. 
•  Clarification sought as to when a project which is in doubt is removed from the list. 

Cathaoirleach J. Fleming proposed that the views of the Municipal Districts be sought and referred 
the 3-year capital programme to the districts. 

8. 

Local Authority Home Loan (LAHL) 

Ms. L. Lacey sought the approval of the Members to borrowing for Local Authority Home Loans for 
2024 and 2025, as outlined in the circulated memo. In accordance with Section 106 of the Local 
Government Act 2001, on the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor, the Council 
resolved to approve borrowing of up to €8,870,000 for 2024 Local Authority Home Loans and 
€1,774,000 for 2025 Local Authority Home Loans. 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

9. 

Increase Cost of Business (ICOB) Grant 

Ms. L. Lacey circulated a memo outlining the detail of the Increased Cost of Business Grant, which 
was noted by the Members. 

10. 

Invitation to the London Wexford Association 70th Anniversary Dinner Dance on 20th April, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved to approve to 
send a delegation to the London Wexford Association 70th Anniversary Dinner Dance on 20th April, 
2024. 

11. 

Amendment of Standing Orders 

Mr. M. Drea circulated a memo seeking the approval of the Members to alter the Standing Orders 
pertaining to the attendance of the public at Council meetings. On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, 
seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the Members resolved to adopt the following wording for Standing 
Order No. 51: 

51.   Members of the public and representatives of the media will occupy the parts of the 
Meeting Room allotted to their use.  
The public shall be admitted subject to the following arrangements:  
A request to attend remotely or in person must be submitted to the Meetings Administrator by 12 
noon on the working day prior to the date of the meeting (Saturday and Sunday are excluded days) 
as seating facilities are limited in the Chamber. In-person attendees must be present in the 
Chamber 15 minutes prior to the start of the meeting and must register their attendance at the 
Customer Service desk on arrival. The same requirements apply to groups seeking to attend, and 
where the group consists of juveniles under the age of eighteen, there must be adult supervision. 
Visitors are expected to comply with Health and Safety requirements.  

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

Cllr.’s D. Devereux, J. O’Rourke, B. Murphy, O. Walsh and G. Carthy left the meeting at this point. 

12. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of queries 
from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

• 
• 
• 

• 

Timeline for Enniscorthy Local Area Plan. 
Number of vacancies in the Fire Service and where those vacancies are. 
How many litter fines are paid in full, how many partially paid, and how many stopped? 

Level of interest from businesses in Senan House. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

Request that if funding is secured for safety works at Larkin’s Cross, funding to be sought for 
Kyle Cross. 
Request that boardwalks at Curracloe be repaired. 
Will funding application for Glynn be resubmitted to Uisce Éireann? 
Do we have sufficient resources to carry out work on the register of electors? 
Can change of address forms for the register of electors be included in new tenant’s packs? 
Request that Veronica Cambell and Paddy Prendergast be invited to address the next 
Council meeting. 
Request that the Planning and Housing Departments improve communication following a 
recent misunderstanding. 
How many mechanical patchers in the County? 
Request for speed ramps in Bridgetown due to volume of traffic at the school. 
Query if the Council should now take the land in Taghmon back from the AHB. 
Issue of availability of cold weather beds and having to vacate them during the day. 
How many are using cold weather beds? 
Has the Council advertised for emergency accommodation B&B providers across the county? 
When does the category of special priority kick in for housing allocations? 
Request that deferred motions from previous meetings be brought forward on the next 
agenda. 
Can a limit on the number of axels or weight of vehicles using certain roads be 
implemented? 

Cllr.’s G. Laffan and J. Hegarty left the meeting at this point. 

• 

• 
• 

• 

Do we know how many people haven’t accessed the CBL system? Can this be added to the 
CE report? 
Can breakdown of rent be included when sending out details of new HAP rates. 
Reassurance sought that farmers in Enniscorthy will be able to make submissions on the 
Zoned Land Tax once a Local Area Plan is adopted, as the current deadline for submissions is 
1st April, 2024. 
Request that larger speed limit signs be provided. 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan the Council resolved to suspend 
standing orders to allow the meeting to continue past 5.30pm. 

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

Update sought on wastewater services in the Camolin area. 
Director of Services Eamonn Hore was complimented for his submission on roads funding to 
the Minister. 
Funding of €1.4m for Enniscorthy roads described as insufficient. 
Unacceptable that path at St. Aidan’s school was closed last week. 
Request that funding be sought from the Minister for safety works on the Newline Road. 
Update sought on the M11 project. 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

• 

• 
• 
• 

Frustration expressed at damage being caused to roads in Murrintown and Piercestown by 
HGV’s. 
Request for pilot pedestrian crossing at Whiterock Hill utilising signage rather than lights. 
Timeline for development of schools on Killeens land. 
Request that cold weather beds policy be reviewed. 

Agenda items 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18 were not taken. 

16. 

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  
16.1    List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council approved 
attendance for the following conferences and training: 

Training: 

21.03.24 

AILG Module 2 Training “Local Election 2024 Preparation – A Briefing from the 
Electoral Commission” – Hotel Kilkenny (Southern Region) 

23.03.24 

AILG Module 2 Training “Local Election 2024 Preparation – A Briefing from the 
Electoral Commission” – Hodson Bay Hotel, Athlone (Out of Region) 

Conference: 

8th March 

Online Conference - Offshore Renewable Energy Ireland 2024 
The Future for the Offshore Renewable Energy (ORE) Sector in Ireland. 
Fee €305 plus VAT 

18/19 April 

Irish Planning Institute – 2024 National Planning Conference 
Theatre Royal and Tower Hotel, Waterford City. Fee €505 

19. 

Any Other Business. 

Cllr. M. Bell sought the approval of the Council to accept an invitation for a delegation to travel to 
Fleurs from 29th March to 1st April. On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor, 
the Council resolved to approve to send a delegation from the Wexford Borough Municipal District 
to Fleurs on 29th March, 2024. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.03.24 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Aibreán, 2024. 

________________________  

________________________ 

Cllr. John Fleming 

Cathaoirleach  

Michael Drea,  

County Secretary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
