County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held Monday 9th September 2024 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Kehoe 

Pat 

O’Rourke 

John 

Boland 

Nicky 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Ó Súilleabháin 

Fionntán 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kenny 

Donal 

Owens 

Jackser 

Byrne 

Codd 

Cathal 

Laffan 

Garry 

Shannon 

Raymond 

Jim 

Lawlor  

George 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

McDonald 

Darragh 

Staples 

Frank  

Dwyer 

Farrell 

Fleming 

Forde  

John 

Mary 

John 

Tom 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Staples 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Sullivan 

Walsh 

Murphy 

Marty 

Walsh 

Robbie 
(Online) 
Joe 

Catherine 
Biddy 
 Oliver 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Officials: 

Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. S. Howell, A/Director of Services 
Ms. L. Lacey, Head of Finance 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: There were no apologies recorded 

Page 1 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of David Bolger, husband of Deirdre Bolger, former County Councillor. 
•  The  family  of  James  (Jimmy)  Kavanagh,  father  of  Jimmy  Kavanagh,  GSS  for  Rosslare 

Municipal District 

•  The family of May (Mary) Savage, mother Nicola Godden, Customer Services Unit 
•  The family of Padge Roban, father of Paula Roban, FOI Section 
•  The family of Sarah Corish, wife of Dermot Corish, Foreman, New Ross Municipal District 
•  The family of Dan Donovan, father of Clinton Donovan, Climate Action Office 
•  The family of Maura Roche, mother of Aine Roche, Local Authority Integration Team. 
•  The family of Arthur Murphy, former Engineer, Wexford County Council. 
•  The family of Ger Doran, Top Tyres, Enniscorthy. 

Congratulations: 

Cllr. J. Codd congratulated the organisers of the Duncormick Harvest festival. 
Cllr.  J.  Codd  congratulated  Boo  Murphy  who  won  the  U15  girls  doubles  final  at  the 
World Handball Wallball Championships. 
Cllr.  J.  Fleming  congratulated  the  Handball  Board  on  hosting  the  World  Wallball  One  Wall 
Championship in the University of Limerick Sports Arena in August. 
Cllr.  J.  Fleming  congratulated  the  Raheen  Men’s  and  Ladies  Intermediate  Rounders  teams  on 
winning their respective All Ireland finals. 
Cllr.  J.  Fleming  congratulated  Linda  Kelly  on  partnering  Katie-George  Dunlevy  to  win  gold  in  the 
women’s B individual time trial cycling event at the Paralympic Games.  
Cllr.’s  J.  Fleming  and  M.  Sheehan  congratulated  the  Wexford  fire  fighters  and  their  FDNY 
counterparts who are taking part in a charity cycle in Ireland this week. 
Cllr. J. Fleming congratulated Cllr. N. Boland on completing the 200km Kerry Way Ultra. 
Cllr. P. Barden congratulated Green Road on the release of their new song “They Sailed Away” and 
Eddie Doyle who wrote the song. 
Cllr.  C.  Walsh  congratulated  everyone  involved  with  making  Fleadh  Cheoil  na  hÉireann  such  a 
massive success. 
Cllr.  G.  Carthy  congratulated the  people of  Rosslare for  continuing  to  maintain their  protest  and 
emphasised the need for an answer from An Bord Pleanála. 
Cllr.  A.  Browne  congratulated  Rapparees-Starlights  GAA  club  on  the  opening  of  McCauley  Park 
Bellefield in Enniscorthy. 
Cllr. A. Browne congratulated Festy Ebosele on being called up to the Irish senior squad for the game 
against Greece. 
Cllr.’s A. Browne and L. McDonald congratulated Fiona Kehoe on winning a gold medal at the World 
Masters Championships in Gothenburg, Sweden. 
Cllr. L. McDonald congratulated the St. Martins minor rounders team who won the men’s division 
and the victorious mixed minor team who won their division. 
Cllr. B.A. Murphy congratulated Aoibhe Ormonde, Emma Gaffney, Sarah Murphy, Katie Moran and 
Nykia Quigley from Aspire Gymnastics Academy who have been selected to represent Ireland at the 
Acrobatic Gymnastics World Championships in Portugal on Sunday September 8th. 

Page 2 of 14 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  congratulated  the  organisers  of the  Kennedy Summer School and  Willie  Kielthy 
who has stepped down from his role as Chairperson. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

1.1 

County Council Meeting 8th July, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council 
resolved to confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 8th July, 2024. 

Matters Arising: 
Cllr. J. Fleming noted that he did attend the July Council meeting on 8th July, 2024 but he 
wasn’t recorded as attending in the minutes. 

2.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Intention to lease property at Caislean an Dinigh, Carrig on Bannow, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy the Council resolved to 
lease property at Caislean an Dinigh, Carrig on Bannow, Co. Wexford, in accordance with 
the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.2 Intention to transfer a portion of land at Tomsollagh, Ferns, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh the Council resolved to 
transfer a portion of land at Tomsollagh, Ferns, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms 
set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.3 Intention to dispose of property known as “Gladney’s” at 5 John Street, New Ross, Co. 
Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
dispose of property known as “Gladney’s” at 5 John Street, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in 
accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.4 Intention to dispose of land at Rathnure, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy the Council resolved to 
dispose of land at Rathnure, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated.  

2.5 Intention to lease land at Rathnure, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. B. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden the Council resolved to 
lease land at Rathnure, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated.  

2.6 Intention to lease land Ballyknockan, Rosslare Harbour, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien the Council resolved to 
lease land at Ballyknockan, Rosslare Harbour, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms 
set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

Page 3 of 14 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 
Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

Mr. E. Taaffe outlined the broad detail of a discussion with the Members of Enniscorthy 
M.D. stating that the current proposed works will form part of a comprehensive URDF 
application. Mr. Taaffe advised that some additional parking spaces can be provided on the 
Murphy Flood site until such time as that site is being developed. Mr. Taaffe also confirmed 
that there will be investment in the Templeshannon area public realm, and a proposed 
regeneration project in the castle quarter. 
There was a lengthy discussion with contributions from Cllr.’s A. Browne, J. Owens, C. 
Byrne, and P. Kavanagh. 

3.1 LAC2312 – Revised street layouts and public realm improvements to Castle Hill, Castle 
Street, Church Street, Court Street, Weafer Street, Spout Lane, Cathedral Street, Main 
Street, Barrack Street and Island Road, Enniscorthy. 
Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. A. Browne, 
seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for revised street 
layouts and public realm improvements to Castle Hill, Castle Street, Church Street, Court 
Street, Weafer Street, Spout Lane, Cathedral Street, Main Street, Barrack Street and Island 
Road, Enniscorthy, in accordance with the terms of LAC2312, as circulated. 

3.2 LAC2404 - Construction of 22 no. housing units, consisting of 8 no. 1-bed single storey 
adaptable units, 8 no. 3-bed two storey terrace units, 6 no. 2-bed two storey terrace units 
and associated site works at Cluain Fada, Morrisseyland, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 
Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, 
seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for construction of 
22 no. housing units, consisting of 8 no. 1-bed single storey adaptable units, 8 no. 3-bed 
two storey terrace units, 6 no. 2-bed two storey terrace units and associated site works at 
Cluain Fada, Morrisseyland, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms of 
LAC2404, as circulated. 

3.3 LAC2405 – St. Waleran’s Proposed Sports Complex to include community sports 
building with indoor courts; outdoor cricket field, athletics track and hockey pitch; access 
arrangements including cycle paths, footpaths, 94 no. parking spaces, temporary access 
roadway, landscaping and ancillary site development works. 
Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, 
seconded by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for St. 
Waleran’s Proposed Sports Complex to include community sports building with indoor 
courts; outdoor cricket field, athletics track and hockey pitch; access arrangements 
including cycle paths, footpaths, 94 no. parking spaces, temporary access roadway, 
landscaping and ancillary site development works, in accordance with the terms of 
LAC2405, as circulated. 

4. 

Submission on the Arklow Bank Wind Park 2 in Accordance With Section 291(4) of the 
Planning and Development Act 2000 (as amended) as a Coastal Authority 

Mr. E. Taaffe outlined that in accordance with Section 291(4) of the Planning and 
Development Act 2000 (as amended) Wexford County Council as a coastal planning 

Page 4 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

authority is a statutory consultee. Mr. E. Taaffe advised that as the period for public 
consultation ended on 12th August, Wexford County Council sought and were granted an 
extension of time from An Bord Pleanála to consult with the Members at the September 
Council meeting.  

Mr. E. Taaffe gave the Members a summary of the key points contained in Wexford County 
Council’s submission, which was circulated, and informed the Members that in accordance 
with Section 291(6) & (7), the Members can by resolution attach their own 
recommendation.   

There was a lengthy discussion with contributions from Cllr.’s J. Codd, P. Barden, F. Ó 
Súilleabháin, G. Carthy, G. Lawlor, J. Sullivan, and M. Farrell. There was general positivity in 
relation to the need and benefit of renewable energy, whilst real concern was expressed in 
relation to the potential impact on the local fishing industry and those reliant on it for their 
livelihood.  

The following motion was proposed by Cllr. Jim Codd, seconded by Cllr. Ger Carthy, and 
agreed by all to be included with Wexford County Council’s submission to An Bord 
Pleanála: 

“We call on An Bord Pleanála to establish the full impact of the construction and operation 
of the Arklow Bank Windfarm on the livelihood of our fishing industry and all those who 
benefit from it in the short, medium and long term.” 

5. 

Budget 2025 

a.  Local Property Tax – local adjustment factor 2025 (LAF) 

Ms. L. Lacey advised that the 2022 regulations establish the statutory deadline for 
passing a resolution to set a Local Adjustment Factor as follows: 

- 
- 

In the year in which a revaluation takes place this will be 31st August 
In every other year the deadline will revert to 15th October 

Therefore, for the 2025 decision the deadline is 15th October, 2024 

b.  Local Property Tax – provisional allocation 2025 

Ms. L. Lacey informed the Members that while we have not received formal 
notification of the 2025 LPT allocation, we are assuming that the allocation for 2025 
will remain the same as 2024 at €15,126,453 (excluding LAF) and including +15% LAF, 
as agreed as part of the Economic & Development programme commitments, at 
€16,985,613.  

c.  Budget Meetings 2025 – prescribed periods 

Ms. L. Lacey outlined that the prescribed period for the Statutory Budget Meeting is: 
01 November 2024 to 06 December 2024 

The prescribed periods that apply for the holding of a meeting of a municipal district to 
consider the draft budgetary plan (GMA) are as follows:  
14 October 2024 to 15 November 2024 

Page 5 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

d.  Proposed schedule of dates  

Ms. L. Lacey set out the following proposed schedule of dates: 

Budget Strategy Meeting – Cross Council Group 

Monday 7th October at 2.30pm 

Meeting 

Proposed Date 

Decision on Local Adjustment Factor for LPT  

Council Meeting 14th October 

Draft Budgetary Plan Meeting with Municipal Districts 

October MD Meetings** 

Statutory Budget Meeting 

Monday 25th November at 10.am 

** As NRMD October meeting is outside the statutory period a change of date for the meeting 
will be proposed 

Cllr. G. Carthy congratulated Ms. L. Lacey on her appointment as Director of Finance. Cllr. 
Carthy requested an uplift in the General Municipal Allocation which Ms. Lacey said would 
be considered as part of the budgetary process. 

6. 

Corporate Plan 2025 - 2029 

Ms. A. Byrne informed the Members that work is underway on drafting the Corporate Plan 
which must be adopted by the end of the year. Ms. Byrne advised that there will be a 
consultation process with the Members. 

7. 

Appointment to Local Community Safety Partnership (LCSP)  

Ms. C. Godkin informed the Members that seven appointments were being sought to the 
Local Community Safety Partnership (LCSP). Mr. M. Drea enquired if any Members 
intended forming a group in accordance with paragraph 18, schedule 10 of the Local 
Government Act 2001 for the purpose of making an appointment, with a minimum of five 
Members required to form a group.  

The following Members formed a group – Cllr.’s P. Kavanagh, P. Barden, R. Shannon, M. 
Murphy, and N. Boland. On the proposal of Cllr. P. Kavanagh, seconded by Cllr. M. Murphy, 
Cllr. R. Shannon was appointed to the LCSP. 

The following Members formed a group – Cllr.’s T. Forde, F. Ó Súilleabháin, A. R. O’Brien, J. 
Dwyer, and L. Kelly. On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, Cllr. A.R. 
O’Brien was appointed to the LCSP. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald, J. Sullivan, B.A. 
Murphy, and J. Fleming were appointed to the LCSP. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy, Cllr.’s O. Walsh and D. 
McDonald were appointed to the LCSP. 

Cllr. D. McDonald withdrew his nomination to the LCSP. 

Page 6 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, Cllr. G. Carthy was 
appointed to the LCSP. 

Those duly appointed to the LCSP were Cllr.’s R. Shannon, A.R. O’Brien, J. Sullivan, B.A. 
Murphy, J. Fleming, O. Walsh, and G. Carthy. 

8. 

Appointment to Healthy County Committee (including Mental Wellbeing Working Group) 

Ms. C. Godkin informed the Members that four appointments were being sought to the 
Healthy County Committee (including Mental Wellbeing Working Group). Mr. M. Drea 
enquired if any Members intended forming a group in accordance with paragraph 18, 
schedule 10 of the Local Government Act 2001 for the purpose of making an appointment, 
with a minimum of nine Members required to form a group.  

The following Members formed a group – Cllr.’s T. Forde, F. Ó Súilleabháin, A. R. O’Brien, J. 
Dwyer, L. Kelly, J. Codd, J. O’Rourke, J. Owens, and G. Lawlor. On the proposal of Cllr. T. 
Forde, seconded by Cllr. J. Dwyer, Cllr. L. Kelly was appointed to the Healthy County 
Committee. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, Cllr. B. Murphy was 
appointed to the Healthy County Committee. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, Cllr.’s G. Carthy and M. 
Sheehan were appointed to the Healthy County Committee. 

On the proposal of Cllr. C. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. P. Kehoe, Cllr. F. Staples was appointed 
to the Healthy County Committee. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Kavanagh, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden, Cllr. R. Shannon was 
appointed to the Healthy County Committee. 

Cllr.’s G. Carthy and B. Murphy withdrew their nominations leaving Cllr.’s L. Kelly, F. 
Staples, M. Sheehan, and R. Shannon duly appointed. 

Cllr. R. Staples left the meeting at this point. 

9. 

Approval for Enniscorthy Municipal District delegation to travel to Blacktown, Sydney, 
Australia – March 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens, the Members resolved to 
send a delegation from Enniscorthy Municipal District to Blacktown, Sydney, Australia in 
March 2025. 

10. 

Approval for delegation to attend KIMO AGM, October 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy, the Members resolved to 
send a delegation to attend the KIMO AGM in Harlingen, Netherlands in October 2024. 

Page 7 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

11. 

Invitation to Wexford Towns Reunion Buffet Dinner Dance – London Wexford Association 
– 12th October, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. R. Shannon, the Members resolved 
to send a delegation to the London Wexford Association Wexford Towns Reunion Buffet 
Dinner Dance in London on 12th October, 2024. 

12. 

Chief Executives Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

• 

• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 

• 
• 

Cllr. J. Owens proposed that a school warden be hired for St. Aidan’s school, and 
this was seconded by Cllr. A. Browne. 
What steps are the Council taking to enhance the Dog Warden service to deal with 
new XL Bully legislation. 
Request that Wexford County Council work with landowners to cut back vegetation 
which is causing a danger on the roads outside of the specified cutting period. 
Request that road markings be reviewed. 
Request for list of estates in Gorey LEA which have applied to be taken in charge 
and the status of the requests. 
Update sought on pyrite/mica cases. 
Michele Bridge Carley and Stephen Sheehan’s assistance in dealing with a difficult 
case was complimented. 
What supports are available for people suffering from domestic violence. 
Is this the end of the road for appeals for Wexford metal recycling plant refused 
planning by An Bord Pleanála? 

Cllr. J. Owens left the meeting at this point. 

•  Mr. E. Taaffe and Cathaoirleach P. Breen congratulated Ms. L. Lacey on her 

appointment as Director of Finance. 

•  What are the sanctions if someone cuts down a tree without permission? Who is 

responsible, the Council or the Gardaí? 

•  What percentage of affordable houses in Ramsfort will be allocated to local people? 
•  Active travel at Crossabeg national school welcomed. 
•  Timeline for Forth Mountain Phase 2. 
•  Timeline for Curracloe Water Sports Activity facility. 
•  Status of funding application for Larkin’s Cross safety works? 
•  Are TII proposing some safety works at the Heritage Park? 
•  Why are so few properties being advertised on CBL? 
•  How much has been overspent on B&B emergency accommodation? Will it be difficult 

to recoup this expenditure? 

•  Request that the pilot scheme for Bolt scooters be discussed with the Members. 

Cllr.’s O. Walsh, D. Kenny and F. Ó Súilleabháin the meeting at this point. 

Page 8 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

•  Request that staff member be appointed to proactively pursue the acquisition of 

development land. 

•  How many estates to be taken in charge in Enniscorthy LEA and County? 
•  How many waiting on pre-planning meetings? 
•  When will there be another pre-planning clinic in the Street in County Hall? 
•  Request for update on Fire Service staffing. 
•  Update request for Clohamon junction. 
•  Request for bypass or relief road on the N80 for Bunclody. 
•  Ballycarney junction update. 
•  Request that TII be asked to attend the next Council meeting. 
•  Request that the number of beds per housing unit allocated be provided in the CE 

Report. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

•  Request that the Council seek to develop more than 50 units on the Lyre site. 
•  Request that Ballyhogue water issues be raised with Uisce Éireann. 
•  Timeline for Killeens master plan. 
•  Timeline for schools at Killeens. 
•  Council commended for landscaping of Oyster Lane site. 
•  Request that the Council consider an ice rink at Oyster Lane for the Christmas period. 
•  Request that potholes at Larkin’s Cross be repaired. 
•  Request that Cullenstown junction onto Carrig on Bannow road and junction coming to 

Fethard at Poulfur be examined. 

•  Request for housing nominee to sit on Drugs Taskforce. 
•  Status update on the housing site in Taghmon. 
•  Can the Council assist Taghmon and Castlebridge Handball Clubs to resolve ownership 

issues. 

•  Council commended for a fantastic Fleadh Cheoil na hÉireann. Request that 

consideration be given to the impact on businesses on the outskirts of the town next 
year. 

Cllr. C. Byrne left the meeting at this point. 

• 

Is there a programme to deal with junctions particularly badly impacted by heavy 
machinery? 

•  Status of SETU campus? 
•  Call for Minister for Further and Higher Education, Research, Innovation and Science to 

make a decision on the roll out of veterinary and pharmacy courses in SETU. 

•  Request for a list of all applications for the Community Recognition Fund. 
•  Timeline for commencement of Esmonde St. works. 
•  Query if Part V units are advertised on CBL system. 
•  Disgust expressed at Bus Eireann’s late notification to families that no school bus 

service is available. 

•  Request to seek funding for bus shelters from NTA. 
•  Update on affordable housing scheme for New Ross. 
•  Update on New Ross advance factory. 

Page 9 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

•  Status of library project in New Ross? 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy standing orders were 
suspended to allow the meeting to proceed beyond 5.30pm. 

•  Request that park and ride be explored for other events in Wexford after its success at 

the Fleadh. 

•  Request that action be taken against a tenant who was evicted for serious anti-social 

behaviour but has now moved into another local authority property. 
•  Request for short and long term plans for old Tesco site in Wexford. 
•  Request that the Council consider solar panels for new build units to reduce the cost of 

heating water. 

Cllr. L. Kelly left the meeting at this point. 

•  Commend the Council for their work in delivering housing units in Gorey. 
• 

Issue of beach being washed away in Courtown was raised and request that handrail 
be replaced at the beach. 

13.  Minutes of CPG 

13.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 2nd September, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of CPG Meeting 2nd September, 2024. 

14.  Minutes of Meetings (for Noting): 

14.1 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 8th May, 2024 
14.2 New Ross Municipal District Annual Meeting – 26th June, 2024 
14.3 Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 15th May, 2024 
14.4 Rosslare Municipal District Annual Meeting 26th June 2024 
14.5 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 20th May, 2024 
14.6 Borough District of Wexford Annual Meeting – 25th June, 2024 
14.7 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 20th May, 2024 
14.8 Enniscorthy Municipal District Annual Meeting 26th June, 2024 
14.9 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 21st May, 2024 
14.10 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Annual Meeting – 25th June, 2024 
14.11 Protocol Committee Meeting 8th January, 2024 

 The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

15. 

Councillor's Conferences and Training 

15.1 List of Conferences /Training - List Attached 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the Council resolved to 
approve the following training courses and conferences. 

Training: 

Page 10 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

11/12 
September 

AILG Autumn Training Seminar 2024 – Hillgrove Hotel, Monaghan. 
Fee €170 

26 September AILG Training – “An Overview of the Planning System” – Horse & Jockey, 

Tipperary. 
(Southern Region) 

28 September AILG Training – “An Overview of the Planning System” – Bridge House Hotel, 

Tullamore. 
(Out of Region) 

24 October 

AILG Training – “Local Authority Finance & Budget” – Sligo Park Hotel, Sligo. 
(Southern Region) 

2 November  AILG Training – “Local Authority Finance & Budget” – Radisson Hotel, 

Limerick. 
(Out of Region) 

14 November  AILG Training – “Government Legislation Policy Programme 2024 – A 

Briefing for Elected 
Members” – Tower Hotel, Waterford. (Southern Region) 

16 November  AILG Training – “Government Legislation Policy Programme 2024 – A 

Briefing for Elected 
Members” – Claregalway Hotel, Galway. (Out of Region) 

Conferences: 

5 September  Threshold – Changing Our Housing System, The Richmond Education and 

Event Centre, 
Smithfield, Dublin. 

11/12/13 

October 

Celtic Conferences – “A Practical Guide to Budget 2025” – Carlingford, Co. 
Louth 
Conference Fee €130 

15.2 Councillors Conference Report 
•  Report from Moncountant France, Twinning Trip - July 2024 

The Members noted the report from the Moncountant twinning trip. 

16. 

Notices of Motion 

16.1 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"We ask that this council fly the Palestinian flag at Wexford County Council on the 
International Day of Solidarity with Palestine on 29th November." 

Page 11 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor, the motion was carried. 

16.2 Cllr. Aoife Rose O’Brien 
“This council recognises the critical role of the school transport scheme in the lives of 
families and children and calls for immediate and comprehensive reform to provide a fit-
for-purpose school transport scheme for all students requiring transport to their nearest 
school, irrespective of distance. 
We ask that the Minister for Education and the Minister for Transport; 
- ensure that families issued with concessionary tickets in the past continue to benefit from 
the service. 
- ensure that the school transport scheme is reformed to serve the needs of students and 
their families adequately. 
- ensure that adequate funding is allocated in the 2025 Budget to significantly expand 
school transport services so that it is a dependable service for students.” 

On the proposal of Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the motion was carried. 

16.3 Cllr. John Fleming 
“That Wexford County Council calls on the Minister of State at the Department of Housing, 
Local Government and Heritage with special responsibility for Local Government and 
Planning to change the regulation regarding a planning application site notice. 
When a site is inspected and the site notice is not visible the applicant has to re-apply and 
go through the whole costly planning process again. 
I am calling on the Minister to change the regulation to when the County Council inspect 
the site and find there is no planning documentation displayed they give a two week notice 
to the applicant to get the planning notice erected for inspection after that two week 
period.” 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan, the motion was carried. 

16.4 Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin 
“Wexford County Council acknowledges the increased costs of construction-related work 
over recent times,and calls on the Department for Social Protection or other relevant 
agency to increase the Housing Adaptation Grants cap from 30K to 35K. as well as 
increasing the HOP and Mobility Aids Grant to take account of extra costs.” 

This motion wasn’t moved as Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin was not present. 

16.5 Cllr. Bridin Murphy 
"That this Council would host a reception for all of the volunteers and organisers of Fleadh 
Cheoil 2024, thanking them in recognition of how Wexford has benefited from hosting this 
prestigious event". 

On the proposal of Cllr. B. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the motion was carried. 

16.6 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"Wexford County Council recognises the need for many households to move away from 
heating systems that have a complete reliance on a fire fuelled by coal and other fossil 

Page 12 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

fuels and also recognises that it can be difficult for many older people and those with 
specific medical issues to transport and use coal and other fuels. Currently, households 
cannot avail of the 'Housing Aid for Older People Grant' to upgrade their existing heating 
system from one which relies on the use of a back boiler system. We ask that the Minister 
update the criteria for these grants, to allow households to qualify, if their existing heating 
system relies on a fossil fuelled open fire so that they may upgrade their existing heating 
system." 

Cllr. G. Laffan proposed the following amendment: 

"Wexford County Council recognises the need for many households to move away from 
heating systems that have a complete reliance on a fire fuelled by coal and other fossil 
fuels and also recognises that it can be difficult for many older people and those with 
specific medical issues to transport and use coal and other fuels. Currently, households 
cannot avail of the 'Housing Aid for Older People Grant' to upgrade their existing heating 
system from one which relies on the use of a back boiler system. We ask that the Minister 
update the criteria for these grants, to allow households to qualify, if their existing heating 
system relies on a fossil fuelled open fire so that they may upgrade their existing heating 
system to include oil or gas fired burners." 

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan the amended motioned was 
carried. 

16.7 Cllr. Aoife Rose O’Brien 
“This council recognises the critical role of mental health services and their accessibility 
and calls on the Minister of State with responsibility for mental health patients, for 
dedicated beds for patients experiencing crisis mental health to be allocated in Wexford 
that provide adequate, 24/7 care. “ 

On the proposal of Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde the motion was carried. 

16.8 Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin 
“This council heartily commends all who contributed to the huge success of Fleadh Cheoil 
na hÉireann 2024. It notes the profits made by vintners and will engage with the Vintners 
Association to establish a Community Benefits Fund to assist a local mental health charity 
or other worthy local cause for Fleadh Cheoil 2025.” 

This motion wasn’t moved as Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin was not present. 

17. 

Any Other Business 

Cllr. T. Forde sought an update in relation to a motion which was submitted to the Minister 
in relation to funding for Talk to Tom. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Page 13 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daingithe ar an             

lá de Deireadh Fómhair, 2024. 

County Council Meeting 09.09.24 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 14 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
