County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 11th July, 2022 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA 
ANNE 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

DAVID 
(on line) 
WILLIE 
(on line) 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

KAVANAGH 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

STAPLES 

FRANK 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, A/Chief Executive 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Mr. Diarmuid Houston, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, A/Director of Services & County Secretary 
Mr. Brian Galvin, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Apologies: 

Councillors:  Pat Barden 

Diarmuid Devereux  

Officials: 

Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

Page 1 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach advised that votes of sympathy other than the following should go before 
the relevant Municipal District meeting, as he felt this was more appropriate and respectful: 

Employees and former employees, employee’s family, Councillors and former Councillors, 
Councillor’s family, Oireachtas members and former Oireachtas members. 

The  Cathaoirleach  offered  the  sympathy  of  the  Council  to  the  families  of  the  following 
recently deceased: 

•  The family of Margaret (Peggy) Connick (née Ryan), mother of Councillor Anthony 

Connick 

•  The family of Myra Mary Whelan (née Moore), mother of Councillor Michael Whelan 
•  The  family  of  Declan  MacPartlin,  Baylands,  Camolin,  Wexford  (Former  County 

Councillor) 

•  The  family  of  Miriam  Hoare  (née  Gannon),  Ruane,  Dunganstown,  New  Ross,  Co. 

Wexford, wife of Gearoid Hoare, Water Services 

•  The family of Stephen (Stevie) Moran, husband of Susan Montague, Motor Tax 
•  The  family  of  Henry  (Harry)  Connolly,  St.  Aidan's  Villas,  Enniscorthy,  Co.  Wexford 

(Former employee) 

Votes of Congratulations 

The Cathaoirleach advised that votes of congratulations for events other than National and 
County events, should go before the relevant Municipal District meeting: 

•  Wexford’s National Fleadh Cheoil bid 
•  Wexford Ladies Football team reaching the Intermediate All-Ireland Final 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 

Special County Council Meeting 13th June, 2022  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council 
resolved to confirm the Minutes of the Special County Council Meeting on 13th 
June, 2022. 

1.2 

County Council Meeting 13th June, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, the Council 
resolved to confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 13th June, 2022. 

1.2.1   Matters Arising 

Page 2 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

Cllr. T. Forde expressed his view that the amendment to his motion at the 
June meeting, in relation to the Housing For All Plan, should not have been 
allowed. He believed the amendment of the motion was a direct negative, 
which is precluded under section 25 of Standing Orders. The Cathaoirleach 
adjudged that the amendment didn’t amount to a direct negative but 
agreed to refer the matter to the Protocol Committee. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan stated that the previous County Secretary indicated that he 
would try and establish the veracity of a letter received by the Members. 
The County Secretary advised that he was not made aware of any such 
matter. 

1.3 

Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 20th June, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, the Council resolved 
to confirm the Minutes of the Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council on 20th 
June, 2022. 

2. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 

Proposed intention to dispose of a plot of land at Bridgetown, Co. Wexford to 
Waterford and Wexford Education and Training Board. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. J. Staples, the Council resolved 
to dispose of the above plot of land at Bridgetown in accordance with the terms of 
the S. 183 Notice, as circulated. 

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 
Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1 

LAC2203 - Proposal to connect properties via a series of communal pumping 
stations at Kilrane Village, Rosslare Harbour, Co. Wexford. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. J. 
Staples, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 to 
connect properties via a series of communal pumping stations at Kilrane Village in 
accordance with the terms of LAC2203, as circulated. 

3.2 

LAC2204 - Newtown Road Cycle Scheme at Newtown Road, Wexford 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. G. 
Laffan, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for a 
Newtown Road Cycle Scheme in accordance with the terms of LAC2204, as 
circulated. 

Page 3 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3 

LAC2205 - Proposal to construct new multi storey structure of mixed use 
development at Main Street, Enniscorthy, Co Wexford 

County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. B.A. 
Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 
to construct a new multi storey structure of mixed use development at Main Street, 
Enniscorthy in accordance with the terms of LAC2205, as circulated. 

There were queries from Cllrs. C. Byrne, B.A. Murphy and J. Owens, in relation to 
two way traffic. D. Houston, A/Director of Services confirmed that the Part 8 
provides for the existing traffic arrangements to pertain.  

4. 

CCTV Systems – For Approval 

4.1 

Enniscorthy 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens, the Council 
resolved to approve the CCTV system for Enniscorthy. 

4.2 

Bunclody 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, the Council 
resolved to approve the CCTV system for Bunclody. 

5. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members in regard to the following: 

Issues regarding MICA and PYRITE and quality checks of materials 

•  Acquisition of New Ross Court house and former public house, the Bumble Bee  
•  Provision of bins in Courtown, Kilmore and other popular coastal locations 
•  Congratulations on National Fleadh Cheoil bid 
•  Odour concerns and Custom Compost Ballyminaun Hill Gorey 
• 
•  Some properties not being occupied by tenants 
•  Acquisition of houses at Tobair Mhuire, Gorey 
•  Vacant house at Marley, Enniscorthy 
•  Bayview Hotel site, Courtown 
•  Bus Eireann cancellations 
•  Posters erected by certain touring companies 
•  Feedback from Housing turnkey advert 
•  Demolition of houses at Bride St., Wexford 
•  Delays around pre-planning meetings 
•  Traffic count for N80 
•  Member’s portal 
•  Active travel proposals 
•  Appointment of Healthy Officer 

Page 4 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

•  Airfield Road water supply 
•  Safe route to school programme 
•  Plans for Harbour Master’s Building and Mechanic’s Institute 
•  Trinity Wharf project 
•  Staggering of closing of Civic Amenity Centres 
• 
•  Council to seek clarity from ESB re: new connection in Ballinaboola  

Increase in Local Authority Mortgage interest rate 

Cllr. G. Carthy made his apologies and left the meeting at this point. 

•  Addition of water and sewerage services layers to iMaps 
•  Enniscorthy town regeneration update 
•  Erection of solar panels on community buildings 
•  Progress on Castlelands housing development 
• 
•  Provision of public toilets at Vinegar Hill 
•  Update on Murphy building in New Ross 
•  Redmond Park CCTV 
•  HGV traffic in Kilmore 

Illumination of Kent’s Cross roundabout in New Ross 

Cllr. J. Fleming proposed that ESB Networks be invited to a meeting and this was 
seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break and at this point, Cllr. O’Rourke made his 
apologies and left the meeting.  

6. 

Minutes of CPG  

6.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 4th July, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty, the Council resolved 
to adopt the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 4th July, 2022. 

7. 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 11.05.2022 
7.1 
Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 18.05.2022 
7.2  
Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 18.05.2022 
7.3  
7.4  
Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting –16.05.2022 
7.5   Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meetings – 17.05.2022 
7.6 

Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment SPC Meetings 17.02.2022, 
10.03.2022, 21.04.2022 
Transportation & Water Services SPC Meeting 17.11.2021 

7.7 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A. Donoghue, the Council resolved 
to adopt the Minutes of the above meetings. 

Page 5 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 

Correspondence and Communications 

County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

8.1 
8.2 

8.3 
8.4 

8.5 

8.6 
8.7 

Letter from Clare County Council re: resolution dated 16.06.2022 
Letter from Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice re: motion dated 
17.06.2022 
Letters from Sligo County Council re: resolutions dated 16.06.2022 
Letter from Donegal County Council re: motion extension of culture night 
dated 24.06.2022 
Letter from Donegal County Council re: motion extension of Tús Scheme 
dated 24.06.2022 
Letter from Kerry County Council re: long covid clinics dated 23.06.2022 
Letter from Limerick City & County Council dated 30th June, 2022. 

The Members noted the above correspondence items and expressed their appreciation for 
the responses received. 

Cllr. T. Forde asked that an invitation be extended to the Minister for Housing to attend a 
Council Meeting. It was agreed that an invitation will be extended. 

9. 

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  

9.1 

List of Conferences/Training – List Attached  

On the proposal of B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council approved 
for attendance the list of conferences and training events, as circulated. 

9.2 

Councillor Conference Reports: 

•  Lugo Twinning Report 

The Members noted the Report above, as circulated. 

10. 

Deferred Notices of Motions - County Council Meeting 11th April, 2022   

10.1  Cllr. L. Kelly 

“Wexford County Council call on the relevant minister to fund a Local Coordination Group 
to  support the Ukrainian refugee fleeing the invasion of their homeland, similar to the 
interagency model which was successfully used for the arrival of Syrian refugees a number 
of years ago, this Local Coordination group would look at areas of health, education, 
housing and general integration.”  

Response of the Executive: 

The Wexford Community Forum has been reconvened to assist in the coordination of the 
response here in County Wexford to the Ukrainian Displaced persons situation. A number 
of meetings of the Forum have already taken place and these meeting will continue at 

Page 6 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

regular intervals over the coming weeks and months. The Cathaoirleach of the Council is a 
member of the Forum.  

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed by all. 

11. 

Deferred Notices of Motions - County Council Meeting 13th June, 2022   

11.1   Cllr. J. Moore 

“In our efforts to promote the Circular Economy, let us ask our residents who have old and 
unused musical instruments to donate them so that they can be given a new lease of life.  

This venture can employ the support across departments such as the Environment and 
Climate Change as well as Community. The restored old instruments can be returned to 
use in our communities, schools etc.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be passed to the Library / Arts Department for further 
consideration 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. A. Donoghue and agreed by 
all. 

11.2  Cllr. L. Kelly 

“The Council agrees to write to Minister for Health Stephen Donnelly, the Oireachtas 
Health Committee and the HSE CEO Paul Reid requesting that the provision of Long Covid 
Clinics is retained and expanded. 

The Council also agrees to raise it with our regional health board and/or local hospital and 
at any other suitable juncture. 

The Council then agrees to circulate this motion to other Councils asking them to consider 
the same”. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Health for consideration with a 
copy to the Oireachtas Health Committee, the HSE CEO Paul Reid and all local authorities 
for consideration.  

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore and agreed by all. 

11.3  Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

“In April 28th the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage Darragh Ó Brien 
provided the breakdown, by local authority, of the Affordable Housing targets funded by 

Page 7 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

the Affordable Housing Fund for the period 2022 to 2026.The five-year 2022-2026 total 
target has been allocated to eighteen local authority areas, where the need for affordable 
housing is determined as being significant. 

This Council expresses our deep disappointment to the Minister that Co. Wexford was 
omitted from the National Affordable Housing Fund List; we ask that it will be included 
immediately, and we further ask - how many families in Co. Wexford will be allocated 
affordable houses this year, and in the years 23, 24 respectively?” 

Response of the Executive: 

County Wexford does not currently have an affordability constraint at a county level in 
terms of house purchase.  With this in mind, the Council Executive has commissioned 
KPMG to examine the key urban centers across the County to determine if an affordability 
constraint can be demonstrated at main town level.  Where this occurs, the Council will 
make a sub-county application for access to the Affordable Housing Fund in respect of 
these areas.     

Independently of this exercise, and where sufficient demand can be demonstrated, the 
Council is committed to examining the delivery of small number of affordable housing 
units. The first such affordable housing scheme to be brought on stream will be a 20-unit 
development of 3-bed semi-detached units in Ramsfort, Gorey with house prices set to not 
exceed €250,000. 

A roadshow to promote this Scheme is scheduled go live in Gorey Civic Centre later this 
month, allowing people to see the scheme in greater detail and to register their interest.    

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. F. O'Suilleabhain and seconded by Cllr. T. Forde. 

Cllr. J. Sullivan made a counter-proposal that the Motion be brought in September when 
the KPMG Future Analytics Report is available, to support the case, and this proposal was 
seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan.  

The counter-proposal was put to the Meeting, and defeated. The original Motion was 
carried. 
11.4  Cllr. L. Kelly 

“Wexford County Council develop a clear policy in relation to how it deals with 
Rhododendron. It is an invasive non native species that can cause ecosystems to collapse 
because they do not coexist with our native plants once they get established. They take 
over and stop a natural plant community developing. With the policy resources should be 
allocated to ensure it’s implementation” 

Response of the Executive: 

It is recommended that this Motion be directed to the Climate Change, Biodiversity & 
Environment SPC for consideration, with the results of that consideration process to be 
brought before Wexford County Council for further review. 

Page 8 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and agreed by all. 

11.5  Cllr. D. Hynes 

“This calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage to increase the 
criteria for people applying for Social housing as the present situation is forcing people into 
paying high rents and therefore into poverty and its often a choice between 'rent or food'  

Response of the Executive: 

As outlined above, the Minister has now announced that the discretion rate for all HAP 
tenancies will increase from 20% to 35% in all counties. The change means that local 
authorities can now pay up to 35% more than the current set of HAP rates. In addition, 
from July 2022, a single person will now also be eligible for the couples HAP rate.    

These measures when implemented will significantly increase the ability of those on the 
Housing List within private rented accommodation to meet their rent commitments. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by all. 

11.6  Cllr. T. Forde 

“This Council calls on the government and Minister Michael McGrath to immediately take 
action to ensure that every household receives the full €200 energy credit, as was 
previously guaranteed and we express our unhappiness that some tenants of Wexford 
County Council who face the same increases in the cost of living as the rest of our 
community, have been excluded from this full rebate due to shortcomings in the 
government measure.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform 
for consideration  

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and agreed by all. 

12. 

Notices of Motion 

12.1  Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin  

“This Council notes and welcomes the establishment of two new Citizens’ Assemblies by 
the Irish Government; it further notes that Citizens’ Assemblies are powerful democratic 
exercises that inform citizens, allowing them to debate specifics, develop positions and 
inform policy. They have operated effectively in many jurisdictions across the world. 
This Council calls on the Irish Government to establish an all-Ireland Citizens’ Assembly to 
debate and discuss our constitutional future. The debate on Irish Unity is live and growing, 

Page 9 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

and we must plan for constitutional change, in the context of the Good Friday provision for 
a Unity referendum.  
This Council also invites officials from the Taoiseach’s Shared Island Unit to present to 
Council and provide an update on activity and plans for the future. 

That this motion be forwarded to the Office of the Taoiseach.” 

 Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Office of the Taoiseach, for consideration. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and agreed 
by all. 

12.2  Cllr. T. Forde 

"Due to the longterm absence of emergency accommodation in many districts and 
reaffirming the previously stated will of this council that we have EA in each district, I ask 
that this council examine the possibility of acquiring units or using some of our existing 
housing stock for the provision of emergency accommodation and report back to this 
council at our next meeting on the viability of such a plan. Such an approach could be 
operated by the council or in coordination with other housing organisations on a pilot 
basis." 

Response of the Executive: 

At present, Wexford County Council works with Ozanam House and two private 
accommodation providers (one in the north and one in the south of the County) to provide 
emergency accommodation. We are also working closely with an Approved Housing Body 
who specialise in providing homeless accommodation. The AHB has already delivered 12 
units, with a further 6 units to be delivered, at another location. In addition, the Housing 
Department makes extensive use of its own housing stock to provide transitional 
accommodation across the County, on a licence agreement. Whilst in emergency and 
transitional accommodation, our Social Care Workers provide outreach support.” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed by all. 

12.3  Cllrs. Enniscorthy Municipal District 

“Ballycarney Inn junction on the N80 is in need of urgent traffic calming. The Members of 
the EMD propose urgent funds be sought from T.I.I and action taken to ensure that traffic 
calming measures are implemented as a matter of urgency. Consideration is asked to be 
given to any and all measures to alleviate incidents at this junction, which have increased 
greatly in recent months.” 

Response of the Executive: 

Page 10 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

Director of Services to respond at Council Meeting. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by 
all. 

12.4   Cllr. L. Kelly 

“This Council calls on Minister Heather Humphreys to ensure the adequate remuneration 
of staff in Local Development Companies in order to retain and recruit skilled and 
experienced staff.  This is critical for the effective delivery of key programmes, such as 
SICAP and LEADER, on behalf of the state.”   
The importance and the value of the work carried out by the local development companies 
has in the last few weeks been acknowledged by the announcement that the SICAP won a 
2022 United Nations Public Service Award. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to Minister for Rural and Community Development 
and Social Protection, Heather Humphreys, for consideration. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly and seconded by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin. 

Cllr.’s J. Moore, M. Sheehan and M. Whelan questioned the appropriateness of the Motion. 
The following amended wording was proposed and agreed to by Cllr. L. Kelly: 

“This Council calls on Minister Heather Humphreys to ensure the adequate remuneration 
of staff in Local Development Companies.” 

The counter-proposal was put to the Meeting and carried.  

12.5  Cllr. T. Forde 

"This council recognises the important work of the Wexford Society for the Prevention of 
Cruelty to Animals throughout our county and will endeavour to assist the group where we 
can with their campaign for a new Animal Rescue Centre in Wexford." 

Response of the Executive: 

The Executive acknowledges the important role played by WSPCA and are willing to lend 
their efforts to secure a new Animal Rescue Centre.   

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all. 

(On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and agreed by all, the Council 
agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue past 5.30pm) 

12.6  Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin  

Page 11 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.07.22 

“This council acknowledges that huge numbers of families in County Wexford are 
experiencing a cost of living crisis at present, and are under real pressure this summer as 
they try to cover Back-to-School costs including the price of uniforms, books, voluntary 
contributions, lunches and transport. 

We further acknowledge the need to cut Back-to-School costs this summer to ensure 
families get a much-needed break from rising expenses. 

This council calls for: 
a. the Back to School Allowance to be extended to include middle income families, 
targeting those on a Household income of €80,000 and less. 

 b. a 50% increase for those receiving the payment already. 

(This would increase supports from €160 to €240 for parents with a child aged 4-11 and 
from €285 to €427.50 for children from the age of 12 up) 

c. the government to eventually work towards a fully free schoolbook scheme for children 
and the elimination of fees in the school transport system on a phased basis, along with 
the provision of seats for an additional 10,000 children. 

d. that we work towards the introduction of a scheme to have affordable school uniforms 
and the abolishment of the voluntary contribution system which can put families under 
further pressure to fork out hundreds of euro. “ 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to Minister for Education, Norma Foley, for 
consideration. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and agreed 
by all. 

13. 

Any Other Business 

Cllr. C. Byrne asked that dates be circulated for a Special Housing meeting.  

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Meán Fomhair, 2022. 

________________________  
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 12 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
