County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 13 September 2021 at 2.30pm 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. B. A. Murphy Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MCDONALD 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

LISA 

JIM 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CARTHY 

GER 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. E. Hore, A/Deputy Chief Executive &Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Oireachtas:  Ms. V. Murphy, T.D. 

Apologies: 

Cllrs:  
Officials: 

J. Codd, A. Connick, D. Devereux, G. Lawlor, F. Staples, O. Walsh 
Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive, Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, Ms. 
C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

•  Mrs. Lena Turner of 14, St. John’s Villas on the death of her daughter Ann, 
•  The Behan family c/o Ms. Margaret Behan, 15, Sliabh Ros, Bunclody on the death of their 

mother Maureen. 

•  The Larrissey family, c/o Ms. Grainne Larrissey, Church Road, Bunclody on the death of 

their mother Bridie. 

•  The family John Cronin, former employee, Wexford County Council. 
•  The family of Michael Furlong, father of Martina Furlong, Economic Development 
•  The family of Mollie St. Ledger (née Blanche), Mother of Sue Kent, CSU 
•  The family of Tommie Thorpe, father of Adrienne Larkin, General Purposes & father-in-law 

of Tony Larkin, Director of Services 

•  The family of Margaret(Maggie) Doyle (née Leacy), Mother of Ger Doyle (Housing)  and 

Eamonn Doyle (Water Services) 

•  The family of Ann Donovan mother of Clinton Donovan, Environment Warden 

Votes of Congratulations: 

The Council expressed their congratulations to: 

•  Wexford Junior Camogie Team, following their recent All-Ireland success 
•  Wexford-based Garda Michael Lee and Garda Barry Hennessy, on being recently awarded 

Scott medals for bravery 

•  Rapparees GAA Club on reaching the 2021 Wexford Senior Hurling club final  
•  The organisers of the 2021 Kennedy Summer School 
• 
• 
•  Adamstown Rounders Team following All-Ireland success 

Ireland’s Paralympic and Olympic teams 
Josh O’Connor following his soccer success 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1  Minutes Council Meeting Monday 12 July 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, seconded by Cllr. G Carthy and agreed by all 
the Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes. 

2.  

Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1  

Disposal of the freehold in a property at Marshmeadows, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed by all 
the Council resolved to dispose of the above property in accordance with the terms 
of the Section 183 Notice as circulated. 

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

3.  

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 
Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1  

LAC2104 – Proposed Development of 7 Houses and Associated Site Works at 
Ballyhine, Barntown, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by all the 
Council resolved that the proposed development should proceed in accordance with 
the Chief Executive’s Report on the matter. 

3.2  

LAC2105 – Proposed Construction of Outdoor Performance Pavilion at Wexford 
Quay Front 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Bell, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty and agreed by all the 
Council resolved that the proposed development should proceed in accordance with 
the Chief Executive’s Report on the matter. 

3.3  

LAC2106 – Proposed Construction of Weatherproofing & Outdoor Dining 
Infrastructure at Monck Street, Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Bell, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all the Council 
resolved  that  the  proposed  development  should  proceed  in  accordance  with  the 
Chief Executive’s Report on the matter 

 4. 

Budget 2022 – Proposed Meeting Dates 

Ms. A. O’Neill Head of Finance presented a report to the meeting which outlined for the 
Members consideration a number of proposed meeting dates surrounding the Budget 
2022 process. 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, the Members agreed the 
meeting dates as set out in the Report.  

5.  

Chief Executive's Report  

The Deputy Chief Executive and Members of the Management Team responded to a range 
of queries from the elected members, including the following: 

o  Enniscorthy Sports Hub 
o  Affordable Housing in Enniscorthy 
o  The provision of Natural Gas in New Ross  
o  Streetscape Grant 2021 
o  Vacant local authority houses 
o  Wexford Town traffic issues 
o  Wexford Tourist Office 
o  Mechanics Institute Wexford 
o  CCTV at Min Ryan Park 

Page 3 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

o  Request to Minister Darragh Ryan to visit Wexford 
o  Provision of public toilet facilities on Wexford Quays 
o  Delay in replying to members correspondence 
o  Updated position regarding Motions passed by Council 
o  Proposed Technological University for the South East 
o  Ministerial visits to County and related protocols 
o  Enniscorthy Flood Defence Scheme 
o  Murphy Flood’s Hotel 
o  Dredging of Crescent Quay 
o  Water Contamination incident in Gorey: 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services provided a detailed summary report on this incident to the 
Council which outlined the nature and cause of the incident, including dates, status of the 
Council’s investigations into the matter, contact with Irish Water, HSE and EPA.  

Mr. Hore advised that the Council’s investigations were continuing but it was clear that the main 
cause of the poor water quality was attributed to the power failure which impacted on the 
chlorine dosing system.  

Mr. Hore further outlined the extensive testing that has been carried out throughout the system in 
Gorey town and the improvement works that have taken place to date.  

6.  

Broadband Connection Points Report 

The County Secretary /Broadband Officer advised the Members of the recent award to the 
Council of grant aid in the sum of €217,350 for the improvement of facilities in each of the 
nine Broadband Connection Points (BCP’s).  

7.  

Minutes of CPG  

7.1  Minutes of CPG of 7 September, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, and agreed by all, 
the Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes 

8.  

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

The Council noted the following Minutes: 

8.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting 09.06.2021 & AGM 25.06.2021 

8.2  

Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 21.06.2021 & AGM 25.06.2021 

8.3  

Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 21.06.2021 & AGM 28.06.2021 

8.4  

Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 21.06.2021 & AGM 28.06.2021 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
8.5  

Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting 15.06.2021 & AGM 15.06.2021 

9.  

Correspondence & Communications 

County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

9.1  

Letter from Wicklow County Council re motion dated 6th July, 2021 

9.2  

Letter from Fermanagh & Omagh District Council re motion dated 6th July, 2021 

9.3  

Letter from Dun Laoghaire Rathdown County Council re motion dated 7th July, 
2021 

9.4  

Letter from Senator Robbie Gallagher re: Debate in the Seanad dated 7th July, 2021 

9.5  

Letter from Catherine Martin TD, Minister for Tourism, Culture, Arts, Gaeltacht, 
Sport and Media dated 8th July, 2021 

9.6  

Letter from Clare County Council re 2 motions dated 13th July, 2021. 

9.7 

 Letter from Limerick County Council re motion dated 13th July, 2021. 

9.8  

9.9  

Email from Alex Costello Private Secretary to the Minister for Finance re CRSS dated 
21st July, 2021 

Letter from Minister Heather Humphreys TD re CE Supervisors Pension dated 21st 
July, 2021 

9.10   Letter from Wicklow County Council re New National Maternity Hospital dated 28th 

July, 2021 

9.11 

Letter from James Browne TD re County Wexford’s secondary roads dated 13th 
August, 2021 

9.12   Email from Brendan Howlin, TD re: motion County Wexford Roads dated 2nd 

September, 2021 

10.  

Training and Conferences 

10.1  Conferences: 

10.1.1  24/25/26 September   

Health & Safety in the Workplace 
Clonakilty, Co. Cork. 
Celtic Conferences Fee €100 

10.1.2  1/2/3 October  

The Fair Deal Scheme 
Carlingford, Co. Louth. 
Celtic Conferences Fee €100 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

10.1.3  8/9/10 October 

Mental Health & Wellbeing  
Clonakilty, Co. Cork. 
Celtic Conferences Fee €100 

10.1.4  15/16/17 October 

A Practical Guide to Budget 2022 
Carlingford, Co. Louth 
Celtic Conferences Fee €100 

10.2  Training: 

10.2.1  September 2021 AILG Training Programme Module 1 

“Government Decision on the Reform on Remuneration Payable to 
Local Authority Elected Members and Update on Planning and Development 
Bill 2021 and other Planning Related Matters”. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes the Members 
approved for attendance the conferences and training events listed above in 
accordance with Section 142 of the Local Government Act 2001 (as amended). 

11. 

Deferred Notices of Motion from Council Meeting 10th May 2021 

11.1   Cllr. G. Carthy 

“That we the Members of Wexford County Council request that the Minister for 
the Environment, Climate and Communications and Transport, Mr. Eamonn Ryan 
TD prioritises the planning, design and construction of the N24 Waterford to 
Limerick Corridor Road project within the Review of the National Development 
Plan. This project is critical to the development of the South East region and to the 
achievement of national targets on addressing regional imbalance by connecting 
the cities of Waterford and Limerick, the South East, South West and Mid-West 
Regions, Rosslare Europort, the Port of Waterford, and existing strategic transport 
corridors including the M7(Dublin – Limerick), M8 (Dublin- Cork) and M9 (Dublin-
Carlow-Kilkenny-Waterford) motorways.  

It is further requested that this Notion of Motion be sent to the Minister for 
Finance, Mr Paschal Donoghue TD and Minister for Public Expenditure and 
Reform, Mr. Michael McGrath TD". 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and 
approved by the Council. 

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.2   Cllr. G. Carthy 

County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

“That this Council calls on the Government in the light of Brexit and other market 
influences to recognise the strategic value of the South-East Ports in Rosslare and 
Belview, Waterford through: 

•  Strategic investment in the Ports, in particular through the purchase of 
additional land for the expansion of Rosslare Europort and the advance 
construction of Rosslare Europort Harbour Access Road. 

•  Amalgamation of the ports structure and governance to create a Tier 1 

port as a combined entity. 

•  Designation of the combined entity as the service port for offshore 

renewables in The Irish and Celtic Seas.  

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and 
approved by the Council. 

12.   Notices of Motion 

12.1   Cllr. J. O’Rourke 

“I write to ask in light of the inability of new community operated playgrounds 
and those whose policies may have lapsed to get insurance cover and increased 
burden of individual costs on existing community operated playgrounds I call on 
Wexford County Council to take all these playgrounds in under the councils 
policy.” 

Cllr. O’Rourke asked that the Motion be withdrawn, and this was agreed. 

12.2   Cllr. M. Whelan 

“I call on this council to support the call from the I.F.A. to extend the deadline date 
on registration of rights of way and easement for at least 2 years from the 30th 
November 2021. And to send the bill to the law reform commission to look at the 
structure as it stands”. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Whelan.  

Following discussion, it was agreed to amend the Motion by deleting the phrase 
“for at least 2 years” and to replace it with the phrase “for at least 4 years”. 

The amended Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne 
and agreed by all. 

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.3   Cllr. K. Codd Nolan & Cllr. C. Byrne 

County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

“In view of the inability of Community Groups to access reasonable Insurance on 
both new projects and renewal of existing policies on play-grounds or Community 
Parks that are not in the ownership of a Local Authority we propose that Wexford 
County Council immediately write to Minister Sean Fleming T.D. Minister of State 
for Dept of Finance with responsibility for Insurance, requesting that he urgently 
examine the area of Leisure Insurance in Ireland and bring forward an immediate 
solution to enable Community groups acquire reasonable insurance to cover these 
very important facilities. “ 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and 
agreed by all.  

It was agreed that the feasibility of extending the Council’s public liability insurance 
policy to cover these community playgrounds would be examined. It was further 
agreed that on receipt of the Minister’s reply to the Motion, the matter would be 
brought before the Council for further consideration,  

12.4   Cllrs. D. Hynes, T. Forde, 

"In the interest of local democracy, this Council calls for an urgent review of local 
authorities protocol regarding executive making decisions that disregard elected 
members, for instance in the area of GDPR where this council’s heavy-handed 
approach is leading to serious concerns on the part of members. In view of the 
fact that it would seem that executive functions are superseding reserve 
functions, we move that the Chief Executive take immediate action to ensure fair 
play, and to avoid a breakdown in the relationship between the Executive and the 
Elected Members.  In  the interest of those who are elected to represent the 
people of Wexford” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Hynes and seconded by Cllr. Forde,. 

Many members contributed to the ensuing debate. Concerns identified included 
delayed response to telephone calls, lack of information flow between staff and the 
Members, and in some cases perceived poor quality of responses provided to the 
Members queries. 

The Deputy Chief Executive and County Secretary expressed their disappointment 
to learn of the Members concerns and undertook to address the issues raised. 

It was also agreed to convene a meeting of the Members Portal Working Group to 
consider the concerns identified in relation to the Portal and to report to the 
Council with proposals to resolve those concerns.  

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

12.5   Cllr. M. Whelan 

That this council calls on our six Oireachtas members to bring the case for the 
provision of adequate funding for research into Motor Neuron disease. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald and 
agreed by all. 

As the Council had now sat for one hour and fifty-five minutes, the Cathaoirleach declared the 
meeting closed, with the remaining items deferred to the next meeting of the Council   

12.6   Cllr. Leonard Kelly, 

“I am calling on Wexford County Council, working with each municipal district to 
carry out a complete road safety audit on all estates that are taken in charge by 
Wexford County Council, with particular emphasis on the condition of existing 
speed ramps (and assessment of need for new ramp) and the erection of signage 
(Slow Down, Children at Play, etc.) as appropriate.  

I have received many representations relating to reckless behaviour of some 
drivers within residential areas. The safety of residents and their children should 
not be dependent on makeshift signage or on discretionary funds being spent by 
individual councillors for things like speed ramps. Any and all safety upgrades 
need to be costed, budgeted and planned to give clarify to local residents. 

We should not be found wanting in this regard.” 

Deferred to the next meeting of the Council 

12.7   Cllr. Tom Forde 

We ask for the Wexford County Council tenant handbook to be reviewed with a 
view to ensuring that the council is held to the same standards and 
responsibilities that are expected of private landlords regarding repairs and other 
essential maintenance works. 

Deferred to the next meeting of the Council 

13. 

Any Other Business 

Deferred to the next meeting of the Council 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.9.21 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Deireadh Fómhair, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
David Minogue,  
County Secretary 

Page 10 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
