County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held via MS TEAMS Monday 10th January, 2022 at 2.30pm  

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. B. A. Murphy Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MCDONALD 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

LISA 

JIM 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

STAPLES 

FRANK 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Liz Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

The Cathaoirleach asked for the cooperation of the members in taking Item 4 as the first item for 
consideration. This was agreed. 

Page 1 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 

Section 24 of the Ethics in Public Office Act 1995 as amended by the Standards in Public 
Office Act 2001 and as applied by the Local Government Act 2001. 

County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

Consideration  of  the  Report  of  the  Investigation  by  the  Standards  in  Public  Office 
Commission of Alleged Contraventions of the Ethics in Public Office Act 1995 and 2001 and 
Part  15  of  the  Local Government  Act  2001  -  Mr. Tom  Enright,  Chief  Executive,  Wexford 
County Council  

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, it was agreed unanimously to 
defer consideration of Item 4 to a Special Meeting of Wexford County Council, to be held on 
Friday 14 January 2022 at 2.30pm. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy, it was further agreed 
unanimously to hold that Special Meeting in person in the Street, County Hall Wexford. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 

Council Meeting 13.12.2021 – 2.30pm 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. Kathleen Codd Nolan, the 
Minutes of the Meeting of Wexford County Council of 13th December 2021 were 
adopted by the Council. 

2.  

Proposed disposal of property under Section 183 of the Local Government Act, 2001 

2.1  

Disposal of property at Main Street, Coolgreany, Gorey, Co. Wexford 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Council 
resolved to dispose of the above property in accordance with the terms of the 
Notice as circulated. 

3.  

Finance Matters 

3.1 

Increased Rebuilding Ireland Home Loan Borrowing Requirement 

The Members considered the report of the Head of Finance in relation to this 
matter.  

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council 
resolved to approve the additional borrowing requirement of €1,694,597 for the 
2021 Housing Mortgage Programme. 

The Members further noted the that the Local Authority Homeloan Scheme will be 
introduced shortly and welcomed the proposal of the Council to widely publicise 
the availability of the Scheme to prospective applicants. 

Page 2 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

3.2  

Audit Committee Report to Wexford County Council 

The Members noted the submission by the Audit Committee of the following 
documents to the Council in accordance with Section 60 of the Local Government 
Reform Act 2014 and Regulation 15(1) of the Local Government (Audit Committee) 
Regulations 2014: 

(a)  Consideration by the Audit Committee of the Annual Financial Statement (AFS)  
2019 and the Local Government Auditor’s Statutory Report on the accounts of 
Wexford County Council for 2020. 

(b) Wexford County Council Audit Committee Annual Report 2021 

(c)  Audit Committee Work Programme 2022 

5. 

Return of Annual Declaration – Notice under S174 (b) of the Local Government Act, 2001 
(as amended) 

The County Secretary (Ethics Registrar) advised the Members that he would shortly issue a 
notice to each Member under Section 174 of the Local Government Act 2001 (as amended) 
advising each Member of their obligation to make an Annual Declaration to the Ethics 
Registrar in accordance with Section 172 of that Act. 

6.  

Section 51 of the Local Government Act 2001 as amended: 

Consideration of the creation of a subcommittee of Wexford County Council called 
Wexford County Council Women’s Coalition which will comprise of the female elected 
representatives on Wexford County Council in line with the Women’s Caucus in the Houses 
of the Oireachtas & other local authorities. 

On the proposal of Cllr. Bell, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes, the Council resolved to create the 
above Committee in accordance with Section 51 of the Local Government Act 2001 as 
amended: 

7. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to the queries of 
the Members in relation to the following matters: 

•  Wexford Inner Relief Road – draft maps to be circulated for Member’s information 
•  Technological University for the Southeast – site acquisition in progress – being 

pursued by agreement,  with CPO option to be considered if required 

•  Choice-based Letting – commencement date to be outlined at Feb meeting  
•  Re-allocation of houses at Belvedere Road – will be pursued 
•  Members Portal – response times continue to improve as resources added 
•  Water treatment plants – provision of ultra-violet facilities – being pursued with IW 

Page 3 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

•  Development of Carrigfoyle Activity Centre – Part 8 Planning application for 

boathouse to be lodged in Feb 

•  Provision of special needs technologies in libraries (e.g. Reader Pens) –  Council will 

consider adding to existing catalogue of such facilities 

•  Use of Mobi-mats at beaches to improve access – this is being currently developed 
under the auspices of the Local Community Development Committee (LCDC) 
•  Planning statistics for 2021 – additional breakdown detail to be provided to the 

Members 

•  Pre-planning – timescales – current 32 days lead-time – efforts being made to 

reduce further 

•  National Rail Review –  Members are frustrated by impact on proposed Wexford to 
Rosslare Greenway– WCC will make a submission - to include request for transport 
of bikes on trains 

•  Litter enforcement statistics – available in the CE Report 
•  New Ross Port - expenditure and income Report to be presented to the March 

meeting of NRMD 

•  Ambulance Services – Council supportive of provision of Gorey base 
•  Defibrillator maintenance – training available to community-based organisations 
•  “World of Work” Programme – Council commended for its support  
• 

Improvements to Muga at Min Ryan Ryan – Council to consider providing nets 
behind goals 

•  Oyster Lane / Mechanics Institute – Future uses to be considered and advised to the 

Members of WBD 

•  Active Travel funding – Council meets NTA monthly - confident promised funding 

will be secured 

•  Trinity Wharf- tenders for access road currently being assessed – works expected to 

start Q1 2022 – confident that timelines and milestones can be achieved 

•  Monck St Development – to commence Q1 2022 
•  Kilmore Sewerage Treatment Plant – WCC will put pressure of IW to provide start 

date for the construction contract 

•  Flood damaged houses – concerns that humanitarian aid falling short – not 
intended to replace like-for-like but instead to offer a more basic redress 
•  Flood defences in Bridgetown and Duncormick areas – Council to meet OPW 
•  Securing of site for additional hotel in New Ross – shortlist of sites being prepared 
together with list of criteria against which each candidate site will be considered 
•  New Ross Courthouse – Council is process of acquiring a number of neighbouring 

properties  
John Street – notice of entry to be served on owners/reputed owners 

• 
•  New Ross Advance Factory – design details being finalised in cooperation with 

interested funding/construction partners 

•  Review of speed limits – Likely to commence in Q2 2022 – Chief Technician Roads 

to visit each MD with more details 

•  Murphy Flood Hotel – Council’s intervention and ambition for site is appreciated 
•  Enniscorthy Country Walk – improvement plans to be presented to Jan meeting of 

EMD 

•  Curracloe Water Sports Activity Centre – Failte Ireland has issued Stage 2 approval 
•  Enniscorthy Sports Hub – Council awaits Dept approval of tender documentation 

Page 4 of 11 

 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

•  Collapsed bridge at Chapel, Clonroche – Council appreciates level of disruption to 

persons living locally - “bailey bridge” proposed as interim measure 

•  Hedgerow removal – Council to support afforestation proposals where feasible 

8.  

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

8.1      New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 10.11.2021 

8.2      Rosslare Municipal District Special Meeting – 11.11.2021 

8.3      Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 17.11.2021 

8.4      Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 15.11.2021 

8.5      Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 15.11.2021 

8.6      Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 16.11.2021 

The Members noted the above Minutes 

9.  

Correspondence and Communications 

9.1  

Email from Private Secretary to Minister Roderic O’Gorman TD dated 20th Dec. 
2021. 

9.2  

Letter from Louth County Council re Motion dated 23rd Dec.2021. 

The Members noted the above correspondence 

10. 

Councillors Conferences and Training 

10.1  Conference Report - Cllr. Garry Laffan - "Housing for All - How will it help people 

find homes", Carlingford, Co. Louth 

10.2  Conference Report - Cllr. Pip Breen - "Delivering Plan Led Development Annual 

Conference 2021, Whites Hotel, Wexford 

10.3  Conference Report - Cllr. Fionntan O Suilleabhain – Mental Health & Wellbeing 

Conference, Clonakilty, Co. Cork 

The Members noted the above conference reports 

Page 5 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

11.  

Deferred Notices of Motions 

11.1  Cllr Davy Hynes 

“This council calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage, to 
scrap the RAS scheme or remove the discriminatory criteria and allow tenants to 
remain on the Housing Transfer list as is the case in the HAP scheme. 

On the proposal of Cllr. Hynes seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor, the Council to adopt this 
motion. 

11.2 

Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“That this Council reaffirms our commitment and support for the local Greyhound 
and Equine sports industry; we commend the Government for its continued financial 
support and calls on the Minister to guarantee the level of grants for the life of the 
government so that the organising bodies can continue to invest in the sport locally 
and the standards of aftercare for retired animals. Furthermore, we call on our 
Oireachtas members to state their position on this issue and commit to oppose any 
moves to reduce the support.” 

Response of Executive:   

If the Motion is passed, the County Secretary will arrange for a copy of the Motion to be 
forwarded to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine, Mr. Charlie McConalogue 
TD for consideration, and will also arrange for the Motion to be forwarded to the six 
Wexford members of the Oireachtas as outlined in the Motion. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan and seconded by Cllr. P. Breen. 

Following debate, it was unanimously agreed to amend the Motion as follows: 

“That this Council reaffirms our commitment and support for the local Greyhound 
and Equine sports industry; we commend the Government for its continued financial 
support and calls on the Minister to guarantee the level of grants for the life of the 
government so that the organising bodies can continue to invest in the sport locally 
and the standards of aftercare for retired animals. 

We ask for oversight to be added to provide security to all participants. 

Furthermore, we call on our Oireachtas members to state their position on this issue 
and commit to oppose any moves to reduce the support.” 

The amended Motion was agreed unanimously.  

Page 6 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

11.3       Cllr. Andrew Bolger 

“Wexford County Council undertake to increase its use of Irish Sign Language (ISL) in public 
communications. Irish Sign Language is the first and/or preferred language of 5,000 Deaf 
people in Ireland and approximately 40,000 people in general will communicate in ISL.  

Response of Executive:   

Wexford County Council currently offers services in ISL at it’s headquarters at Carricklawn, 
Wexford. ISL service will be available in all public libraries by the end of Qtr 1 2022 and in all 
Municipal District Offices by end  of Qtr 4 2022. 

If Motion is passed, Wexford County Council proposes that any new public-facing Council-
made videos will also be made available in ISL. We will also consider the provision of ISL at 
all public events where Council members or Council officials are making an address. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. A. Bolger, seconded by Cllr. D. Devereux and agreed 
unanimously. 

11.4       Cllr. Tom Forde & Cllr. George Lawlor 

“We ask that this council allow for the representation of all parties and none on the 
Corporate Policy Group.” 

Response of Executive: 

Section 133 of the Local Government Act 2001 (as amended) provides the following: 

“The elected council of each local authority shall form a committee, to be known as the  
corporate policy group and in this section referred to as the ‘policy group’, consisting of: 

(a)        the Cathaoirleach of the local authority who shall chair the policy group, 

(b)     

the chairpersons of the strategic policy committees of the local authority, and 

(c)         where for any period of time, a policy group does not contain a member from a 

municipal district to whom paragraph (a) or (b) relates, a municipal district member 
for each municipal district concerned” 

As only the members identified at (a) (b) and (c) above can be members of the CPG, it is 
not be possible to comply with this Notice of Motion. 

Page 7 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

Having reviewed the response of the Executive, the Council agreed to withdraw the Motion 
and instead resolved to write to the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage 
to seek an amendment to the legislation in order to allow representation of political 
parties (and non-party) on the Corporate Policy Group (CPG). 

The County Secretary agreed to correspond with the Minister as requested, while pointing 
out that the composition of the CPG was designed to be reflective of the work areas of the 
Council rather than reflective of the various political parties within the Council. 

11.5       Cllr. Andrew Bolger and Cllr. L. Kelly 

“We propose that Wexford County Council considers piloting the Space-Finder App or 
similar technology in County Wexford to assist disabled drivers in the identification of 
vacant disabled parking spaces and to provide real-time navigation to the nearest available 
disabled space”. 

Response of Executive: 

Wexford County Council has been in contact with relevant staff of Limerick City and County 
Council (where such a system has been recently installed) with a view to the provision of a 
similar service to users of disabled parking facilities in County Wexford. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. A. Bolger, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed 
unanimously. 

12. 

Notices of Motion 

12.1    Cllr. M. Bell 

“Wexford’s Women’s coalition calls on the Minister for Education to implement a 
programme to tackle adulthood domestic violence through early education in our 
schools”. 

The current SPHE programme provided in secondary schools teaches our young 
people how to be safe and protect themselves. Instead, the Women’s Coalition is 
calling for “respectful relationship education” to be introduced in schools during 
secondary school education. Respectful Relationships Education teaches our 
children how to build healthy relationships, resilience and confidence and also 
teaches our young people what constitutes criminal activity in a relationship such as 
the sharing of intimate pictures. This programme was initially rolled out in Australia 
in 2016 and is proving successful in preventing gender-based violence".  

Response of the Executive: 

Page 8 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

If the Motion is passed, the County Secretary will arrange for a copy of the Motion 
to be forwarded to the Minister for Education for consideration. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Bell, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed 
unanimously. 

The Council also noted the success of the nationwide Manuela Programme of 
awareness raising and education activities aimed at and preventing and combating 
violence against women, which was delivered between Sept. 2017 and March 2020. 

12.2    Cllr. J. Fleming 

“That this Council calls on Education Minister Norma Foley T.D. to ensure that third 
level institutions treat students from Meánscoil Gharman and other non-Gaeltacht 
meánscoileanna the same as students from meánscoileanna in Gaeltacht regions”. 

At present, third level institutions offer restricted entry pathways on education 
courses for applicants from meánscoileanna located in Gaeltacht regions. Restricted 
entry pathways usually require less points than the general entry pathways to 
education courses. Given the benefits of Irish speakers sharing their knowledge as 
teachers, it is important that third level institutions equally share the benefits of 
providing a restricted entry pathway to students leaving meánscoileanna in both 
Gaeltacht and non-Gaeltacht regions. “ 

Response of the Executive: 

If the Motion is passed, the County Secretary will arrange for a copy of the Motion  
to be forwarded to the Minister for Education for consideration. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Bell, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed 
unanimously. 

12.3    Cllr. T. Forde 

“I ask that this council review its policy regarding mutual transfers to make the 
process easier and quicker for tenants.”. 

Many requests for works are often made as a prerequisite for a transfer taking 
place. In the case of mutual transfers, these should be relaxed to facilitate the 
transfer, provided that both applicants are happy with the current condition of the 
properties and that there are no safety issues outstanding.” 

Page 9 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

Response of the Executive: 

The current requirement for transfer applicants to ensure each property is presented to an 
acceptable standard, prior to the transfer taking place, is a reasonable provision and  
reflects the terms of the original letting agreements. If transfers are allowed in cases where 
properties are below an acceptable standard, this will create different standards of rented 
 properties and ultimately increase demand on the Council to carry out repairs. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes. 

Following discussion, it was agreed to refer the matter to the Housing SPC for further 
consideration. It was also agreed that Cllr. Forder would be invited to the SPC to speak on 
the Motion. 

12.4    Cllr. J. Fleming Fianna Fáil group  

“That Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing Daragh ‘O Brien TD 
to allow pensioners purchase their homes under the tenant purchase scheme even 
if their only source of income is social welfare payments.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If the Motion is passed, the County Secretary will arrange for a copy of the Motion to be 
 forwarded to the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage for consideration. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and 
agreed unanimously. 

12.5     Cllrs. Aidan Browne, Pip Breen, John Fleming, Willie Kavanagh, Donal Kenny, 

Garry Laffan, Lisa McDonald, Barbara-Anne Murphy, Michael Sheehan, Michael 
Whelan. 

“There are 82 children in Ireland with Spina Bifida and or Hydrocephalus who 
require urgent orthopaedic intervention. Wexford County Council calls on the 
Minister for Health to fast track these children for surgical review as a matter of 
urgency.  

We also call on the Minister to ensure that provision of services is made to Disabled 
Children within elective hospital settings as well as acute hospitals to avoid a repeat 
of this situation. 

Page 10 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.01.22 

Response of the Executive: 

If the Motion is passed, the County Secretary will arrange for a copy of the Motion to be 
 forwarded to the Minister for Health, Stephen Donnelly, TD for consideration. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed 
unanimously. 

13. 

Any Other Business 

The Cathaoirleach and Members offered the sympathy of the Council to the families of 
the following recently deceased: 

•  Ms. Julie Kehoe, Ballinacoola, Craanford,  
•  Mr. John Doyle, The Duffry , Enniscorthy 
•  Mr. James Prendergast, father of Marie Kavanagh, Motor Tax Department. 
•  Mr. Richard (Dan) McGrath, father of Colm McGrath, Assistant Chief Fire Officer. 
•  Ms. Dolores Mitchell, mother of Mark Michell, IT Section 
•  Mr. Joe Doyle, Brother of Siobhan Doyle, FOI Section 
•  Ms. Tara Manning, Mother of Eamon Manning, General Operative, Enniscorthy 

Municipal District and Mother-in Law of Joanne Kehoe, Senior Executive Engineer, 
Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District.  

•  Michael Byrne former Town Foreman in New Ross and brother of former 

Councillor/ Deputy Hugh Byrne. 
•  Mary Byrne Airhill Templetown 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Feabhra, 2022. 

________________________  
Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
David Minogue,  
County Secretary 

Page 11 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
