 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 11th February, 2019 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
J. Hegarty; 
W. Kavanagh;   
B.A. Murphy;  
J. O’Rourke;   
F. Staples;               J. Sullivan;  

G. Carthy; 
M. Byrne; 
M. Doyle 
T. Dempsey;   
J. Fleming;    
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton; 
D. Hynes; 
L. McDonald;  
G. Lawlor;  
M. Murphy; 
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 

K. Codd Nolan; 
A. Donohoe;   
T. Forde;  
P. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien;  
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services;  
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance & ICT; 
Mr. G. Mackey, Chief Officer, LCDC; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary;  

Apologies:  Councillors M. Farrell (apologies that she would be late for the meeting);  
T. Walsh.  

At the outset, the Cathaoirleach asked the Leas-Chathaoirleach W. Fitzharris to chair the 
meeting  while  the  Cathaoirleach  held  a  separate  meeting  with  the  Whips  of  the  political 
parties. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 14th January, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. T. Dempsey and agreed by all, the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above. No matters arising.  

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Michael O’Leary, Auctioneer, Enniscorthy. 
  The family of Margaret Murphy, sister of Cllr. M. Sheehan and John Sheehan, 

Caretaker 

1 

 
 
                                                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

  The family of Denise Walsh, wife of Paul Walsh (Member of Joint Policing Committee) 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The Oylegate Junior B team who won the Junior B All Ireland final. 
  St. Martin’s Camogie team who will take part in the All Ireland Final on 3rd March 2019 
  Nicky White, IBEA, who was inducted into the IABA (Irish Athletic Boxing Association) 

Hall of Fame recently. 

  The Library Service of Wexford County Council for its seminar in commemoration of 

the Centenary of the First Dáil. 

  Curracloe, which won the 2019 Irish Independent Reader Travel Award for Ireland’s 

Favourite Beach recently. 

  Monart Spa, which won the 2019 Irish Independent Reader Travel Award for Ireland’s 

Favourite Spa recently   

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Proposed  disposal  of  land  at  McCurtain  Street,  Gorey,  Co.  Wexford  to  the  Health 

Service Executive, Lacken, Dublin Road, Kilkenny.  

The Leas-Chathaoirleach asked if the disposal had been agreed by the Gorey District  - it 
was confirmed that it had been agreed. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan,  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  and  agreed  by  all,  the 
proposed disposal, as submitted to the meeting, was approved. 

2.2 Proposed renew of lease of property known as Westgate Computer Centre at Wexford, 
Wexford to Access 2000 Wexford CLG.  

On  the  proposal of  Cllr. T.  Dempsey,  seconded  by  Cllr.  D.  Hynes  and  agreed  by  all,  the 
proposed disposal, as submitted to the meeting, was approved. 

3.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1 LAC 1809 – Proposed development of existing site to provide 39 no. social housing 
units with auxiliary and associated siteworks at Rosetown, Rosslare, Co. Wexford.   

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. T. Dempsey and agreed by all the 
proposed development as submitted to the meeting was approved. 

4.  Audit Committee Reports 

  Audit  Committee  commentary  on  the  contents  of  the  2017  Accounts  and  audit 
findings in accordance with Section 60 of the Local Government Reform Act 2014 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

  Overview  of  Audit  Committee  work  programme  completed  during  2018  in 
the  Local  Government  (Audit  Committee) 

accordance  with  section  15  of 
Regulations 2014 

  Audit Committee’s proposed work programme for 2019 

The reports had been previously circulated to the Members.  Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of 
Finance, advised that the three reports have been compiled as part of the Audit 
Committee’s Work Programme for 2018.  

The Audit Committee acknowledged the content of the 2017 Accounts, the contents of the 
Local Government Auditor’s Report and the improvement in the Council’s financial 
position. The Committee noted that, while there has been an improvement in the economy, 
and the Council is going ahead with an investment plan for the county, that a prudent 
outlook with regard to the Council’s finances should be maintained.  

The Council noted the reports, as submitted  

5.  Draft 2019 Annual Service Delivery Plan 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Service, presented the Annual Service Delivery Plan for adoption 
by the Council. The Plan sets out the services which the various departments of the 
Council will deliver in 2019.  He noted that there will be a progress report submitted to the 
Members on a quarterly basis. 

The Cathaoirleach then returned to chair the meeting. 

Members then posed questions with regard to the Plan which were answered by Council 
Officials in attendance.  The issues/questions raised included the following: 

  Capital water and sewerage works in Fethard on Sea and the need to get a 
definitive answer from Irish Water as to when these works will be delivered. 

  Given that 70,000-80,000 people view the London St. Patrick’s Day Parade every 
year, that VisitWexford should have a banner which could be displayed at the 
parade.   

  The Templeshannon Regeneration Project – suggestion that the Executive should 
keep in contact with the Swimming Pool Committee in Templeshannon to discuss 
any new proposals being looked at for the Project. 

  Several villages in north County Wexford need are seeking updates from Irish 

Water as to the status and priority of their rural wastewater schemes e.g. Camolin,  

  The finalisation of the new tourism strategy 
  The inclusion of an Invasive species programme in the Environmental as well as the 

Roads Plan for 2019 

  The need for capital investment in water and sewerage for Ramsgrange Village 
  Sewerage treatment plant for Oylegate 
  The development of an Advance Technology Factory in New Ross 
  Capital Projects in New Ross 
  The Enterprise Centre in New Ross    
  The problems of littering and illegal dumping experienced by many communities in 

County Wexford 

  Problems/issues for Members as a result of GDPR. 
  The application for funding Gorey Market House. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

Increased CPO’s of derelict sites to stop litter 

 
  No market price shown on derelict sites list 
  The need for Recycling Centres to issue receipts for waste material received. 
  Extra funding for Enniscorthy Sports Hub which is seeking to provide underage 

soccer/rugby facilities.  The land has been levelled and reseeded but now needs 
fencing. 

  The Chief Executive advised the Members that there is interest in putting a new 

hotel in Fethard and that, subject to the planning application being right, the Council 
would be hoping to allow an interim temporary solution to deal with the wastewater 
problems encountered by the proposal. 

6.  Local Elections Update 

The County Secretary advised the Members that the new Register of Electors were now 
ready for collection in the Council Chamber. 

7.  LCDC Report  

Mr. G. Mackey, Chief Officer, LCDC had prepared a report which was circulated to the 
Members.  Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that presentations relating to the 
LEADER and SICAP Programmes will be made to the next meeting of the Council. 

The Chief Officer then went out to set out the purposes of the LCDC’s which were 
established under the Local Government Reform Act 2014.  The LCDC is now a 19 person 
Committee and they have the second highest funding allocation in the country.  He noted 
that there are high levels of marginalisation and deprivation in certain parts of County 
Wexford.  Members then asked a number of questions which were answered by the Chief 
Officer and other Council Officials in attendance.  Among the issues raised were the 
following: 

  The measurement of success for the LCDC Grant Aid 
 

Is there need for improvements as the figures show very little difference since 5 
years ago and there seems to be very little impact on the tacking of social inclusion 
– are there parts of County Wexford still excluded?  The statistics seems to employ 
that there is no improvement  

  Some communities are continually excluded leading to resentment in the areas and 

a social divide. 

  Clear measures by WLD in their upcoming presentation to show that social 

inclusion is being tackled and statistics to prove that greater levels of participation 
are in place for certain groups. 

  28 areas in County Wexford are still the same as they were five years ago 
  No money has been invested in those areas and there is a preference for projects 
which are shovel-ready.  Many of these communities don’t have the capacity to 
apply for SICAP funding and money is not spent in the areas of social deprivation. 
  The Chief Officer advised that he is working with AIRO at present as to how best to 

measure the success of the programmes.  He also advised that a whole of 
Government integrated approach is the key to help deprived areas - this would lead 
to a co-ordinated response in dealing with social exclusion.  

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

  The success of the South End Maudlintown project with regard to social inclusion is 
a national model and has had a good end product in the Maudlintown area.  The 
entire community has benefited. 

  Mental health issues and substance abuse issues have not been dealt with 

properly - this need to be tacked in various areas. 

  Gaps in the services and the interventions and need for collaboration when 

reviewing the plans. 

  The success of the Men’s Shed and Community Schemes 
  The need to address school dropouts in the education system 
  The need for infrastructure to service Riverchapel - Community Centre and other 

infrastructure for the large population living there is required. 

  The need for further training to help disadvantaged communities to make 

applications for funding 

  The Chairperson of the LCDC Cllr. K. Codd Nolan advised that the Community 

Department are working extremely hard and that she can see the impact of small 
grants on local communities across the county.  The new programmes will see a lot 
of improvements happening for groups across the county and, in particular, will 
benefit communities who have not been reached previously. 

  The Chief Executive then commended the work of Ger Mackey and his staff in 

Community under John Carley’s Directorship. He noted that previously Wexford 
County Council had no oversight role or input into funding or where money was 
spent with regard to the LCDC.   

Members of the Council now have an opportunity to see where the money is spent 
and to ensure that funding is prioritised to help communities who are most in need.  
The oversight role of the Council is to see that the money is spent in the most 
deprived areas and is spent in a way to get the greatest impact in those 
communities. 

The Chief Executive also highlighted the need to skill up communities to assist 
them in making grant applications 

Vote Re: New Local Electoral Areas and Proposed New Municipal Districts: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne it was agreed to go into 
committee to allow full and frank discussion. It was further agreed that any votes taken in 
respect of this issue would be held in public. 

The Cathaoirleach then synopsized the issues facing the Council and set out a number of 
options arising from his meeting with the Whips. A lengthy discussion ensued to which 
many of the Members contributed. 

Following discussion about a possible motion to be put to the Council, the following motion 
(Motion 1) was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty and seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“That Kilmuckridge would become its own municipal district similar to Rosslare.”  

Cllr. P. Kavanagh then proposed the following motion (Motion 2), which was seconded by 
Cllr. M. Whelan: 

“In light of the fact that the four main towns of County Wexford are centrally located 
economically, culturally and democratically within the existing four municipal districts, 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

Wexford County Council calls on the Minister to revert to the 2014 Municipal District 
Boundaries which have served the people of Wexford well.  

Having failed to resolve the issue imposed on Wexford County Council, we seek a 
deputation to discuss the issue.” 

Three further motions were then proposed, as follows: 

Motion No. 3 proposed by the Cathaoirleach, Cllr. K. Doyle and seconded by Cllr. W. 
Kavanagh. 

“In light of the fact that the four main towns of County Wexford are centrally located 
economically, culturally and democratically within the existing four municipal districts, 
Wexford County Council calls on the Minister to revert to the 2014 Municipal District 
Boundaries which have served the people of Wexford well.” 

Motion No. 4 proposed by the Cathaoirleach, Cllr. K. Doyle and seconded by Cllr. W. 
Kavanagh. 

“In light of the fact that the four main towns of County Wexford are centrally located 
economically, culturally and democratically within the existing four municipal districts, 
Wexford County Council calls on the Minister to revert to the 2014 Municipal District 
Boundaries which have served the people of Wexford well. 

If the Minister is unable to accede to the above, wish of the Elected Members of Wexford 
County Council, the Council calls on the Minister of State for Local Government and 
Electoral Reform to assign the Kilmuckridge Local Electoral Area to the Enniscorthy 
Municipal District as proposed in the Local Electoral Area Boundary Committee No. 1 
Report 2018. The Council is of the opinion that this configuration better meets the needs of 
the people of Wexford.” 

Motion No. 5 proposed by Cllr. M. Farrell and seconded by Cllr. P. Breen. 

“In light of the fact that the four main towns of County Wexford are centrally located 
economically, culturally and democratically within the existing four municipal districts, 
Wexford County Council calls on the Minister to revert to the 2014 Municipal District 
Boundaries which have served the people of Wexford well. 

If the Minister is unable to accede to the above, wish of the Elected Members of Wexford 
County Council, the Council calls on the Minister of State for Local Government and 
Electoral Reform to assign the Kilmuckridge Local Electoral Area to the Gorey Municipal 
District. The Council is of the opinion that this configuration better meets the needs of the 
people of Wexford.” 

Prior to the vote, it was noted that Cllr. M. Farrell had joined the meeting and that Cllr. G. 
Carty, Cllr. T. Dempsey and Cllr. F. Staples had left the meeting. 

The Co. Secretary then clarified the voting process for the Members. Each motion would 
be put to the Council in the order in which they were proposed. If the motion was passed, 
no further motions would be put to the Council. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

If the motion was defeated, the next motion would be put to the Council and this process 
would continue until either one motion was passed or all five motions were defeated. This 
process was noted by the Council. 

Motion 1 was then put to the Council and a roll call was taken as follows: 

Those in favour: P. Breen,  M. Byrne, A. Donohoe, M. Farrell, J. Fleming, J. Hegarty, 
R. Ireton, M. Murphy, F. Ó Súilleabháin, M. Sheehan, J. Sullivan. 

Those against: K. Codd Nolan, A. Connick, K. Doyle, M. Doyle, W. Fitzharris, D. Hynes,  
P. Kavanagh, W. Kavanagh, G. Lawlor, J. Moore, B.A. Murphy, J. Mythen, L. O’Brien,  
J. O’Rourke, O. Walsh, M. Whelan. 

Those abstaining: T. Forde, L. McDonald, M. Roche, 

11 members voted in favour, 16 voted against and 3 abstained.  

Motion No. 1 was defeated. 

Motion 2 was then put to the Council and a roll call was taken as follows: 

Those in favour: P. Breen,  M. Byrne, K. Codd Nolan, A. Connick, M. Doyle, A. Donohoe  
K. Doyle, M. Farrell, W. Fitzharris, T. Forde, P. Kavanagh, W. Kavanagh, L. McDonald, 
 J. Moore, B.A. Murphy, M. Murphy, J. Mythen, L. O’Brien, J. O’Rourke, M. Roche,  
M. Sheehan, J. Sullivan, M. Whelan 

Those against: J. Fleming, J. Hegarty, R. Ireton, G. Lawlor, F. Ó Súilleabháin, O. Walsh 

Those abstaining: D. Hynes 

23 members voted in favour, 6 voted against and 1 abstained.  

Motion No. 2 was passed by the Council. No further motions were put to the Council. 

The Cathaoirleach then suspended Standing Orders to let the meeting continue until 6pm.  

8.  Report of Corporate Policy Group. 

The Report of the Corporate Policy Group of 4th February 2019 was noted by the meeting.  

9.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members. The Chief Executive 
and members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from 
the report including the following: 

  The length of time taken to get a pre-planning meeting. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

  Concerns about remarks made recently by the Minister and John O’ Connor, CEO 
of The Housing Agency regarding Local Authorities not building social housing. On 
the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes, it was agreed to write to 
the Minister and the CEO of The Housing Agency expressing concern about these 
remarks. 

  Nuclear Energy Plan for England/Wales - Members to be notified in future re such 

notifications 

  A briefing for Members in the Tower Hotel, Waterford re the Project Ireland 2040 

Plan. 
At 5.55 p.m. Cllr. P. Breen and Cllr. J. O’ Rourke left the meeting. 

  Carlow I.T. site in Ferrybank. 

Following some discussion about the suitability of the Ferrybank site, the Chief 
Executive advised that Wexford County Council had been assisting Carlow I.T. in 
seeking a site for their new campus. While he had seen the article in last week’s 
newspaper, he was not aware whether the land in question is part of the Redress 
Scheme. He noted that it is zoned land, but that the Council had received no 
proposal to develop the site to date. 
At 6.00 p.m., prior to the discussion on Carlow I.T., Cllr. M. Byrne left the meeting, 
having advised that he may have a conflict of interest in the matter. 

  On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan it was agreed to 

invite the President of Carlow I.T. to a meeting of Wexford County Council to hear 
Member’s concerns in relation to the new site. 
At 6.02 p.m. Cllr. J. Hegarty left the meeting. 

  Update on the post of Heritage Officer 
  Derelict site at Old Wexford Hospital 
  Member’s contribution to the London Wexford Association. 

10.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

  Attendance at London/Wexford Association Functions on 27th April 2019 and 26th 

October 2019. 

  Conference Report of Cllr. J. O’Rourke – E.U. Cohesion Policy -  Carlingford, Co. 

Louth 

  Conference Report of Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin – The Finance Act 2018 – Carlingford, 

Co. Louth.  

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan 
seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh and agreed by all. 

The Conference Reports submitted by Councillors were noted. 

The Members approved attendance of the Cathaoirleach and the District Chairs at the 
London/Wexford Association Functions on 27th April 2019 and 26th October 2019.  

The Cathaoirleach proposed that a Civic Reception be held to honour Handball Players 
and a number of Umpires in County Wexford.  This was agreed by all.    

11. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh, and agreed by all 
the Members present, the following minutes were noted and approved: 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

11.1 Borough District of Wexford 17.12.18 
11.2 Gorey Municipal District 18.12.18 
11.3 Enniscorthy Municipal District 17.12.18  
11.4 New Ross Municipal District 12.12.18 

12. Sealing of Documents 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  J.  Moore  seconded  by  Cllr.  W.  Kavanagh  the  Sealing  of 
Documents as submitted to the meeting were noted by the Members. 

It was agreed that the March 2019 Meeting of Wexford County Council will begin at 2.00 
p.m. to deal with the backlog of motions. 

13. Correspondence and Communications 

  Acknowledgement letter from the Office of the Taoiseach 
  Email acknowledgement from the Office of the Minister for Health  

Correspondence  and  Communications  deferred  to  the  March  2019  Meeting  of  the 
Council.  

14. Deferred Notices of Motion: 

14.1 Cllr. T. Forde: 

“"We ask that Wexford County Council seriously consider and take steps to end the 
over reliance of privately run bed and breakfasts or hotels for emergency 
accommodation. We ask that Wexford County Council recognise the unsuitability of the 
current emergency accommodation model and to examine the possibility of acquiring 
and using more actual houses that could be operated by the council or in coordination 
with other housing organisations for the provision of emergency accommodation." 

14.2 Cllr. T. Forde: 

"We call on Wexford County Council to formulate and to make public a written mental 
health policy for housing which may include a clear protocol when dealing with tenants 
with mental health concerns and to include mental health issues as a priority in the 
allocation of housing” 

14.3 Cllr. G. Carthy: 
“That Wexford County Council immediately re-installs the vehicular access to the 
beach at Seaview, Kilmore.  This commitment was given to the local community and 
the emergence services in May of 2018 and to date has not been acted on”. 

Deferred Notices of Motion deferred to the March 2019 Meeting of the Council.  

15. Notices of Motion 

15.1 Cllr. J. Mythen: 

“That this Council sends solidarity and support to our nurses and midwives whom have  

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
legitimately balloted their members to take strike action, to secure restoration of pay 
with a safe fully staffed,  functioning Health service, that values and pays them as 
essential skilled workers”. 

 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

15.2 Cllr. T. Forde: 

"Maidir leis an Ghaeilge agus iarracht a dhéanamh í a chur chun cinn agus Seachtain 
na Gaeilge a cheiliúradh gach Márta:  "Iarraim go spreagfaidh an Chomhairle seo go 
gníomhach úsáid na Gaeilge ag cruinniú Mí Mhárta de Chomhairle Contae Loch 
Garman gach bliain. 
Iarraimid ar bhaill atá compordach leis úsáid a bhaint as ár dteanga-an Ghaeilge chun 
moltaí, comhghairdeas agus comhbhrón a thairiscint" 

"In an effort to promote the Irish language and to mark Seachtain na Gaeilge every 
March, I ask that this Council actively encourage the use of Gaeilge at the March 
meeting of Wexford County Council every year by asking members of the council who 
are comfortable using the language to consider submitting motions and to offer 
congratulations and sympathies as Gaeilge." 

15.3 Cllr. M. Doyle: 

“In support of events to mark the sitting of the first Dáil and in recognition of it's historic 
importance, I propose that Wexford County Council take this opportunity to recognise 
the core principles of the Democratic Programme of the First Dáil by displaying a 
framed copy of the document in a prominent place in this chamber."  

15.4 Cllr. R. Ireton: 

“On behalf of Aitheantas I am calling on Wexford County Council to write to Minister 
Zappones Department requesting/demanding that her Department acknowledges 
Adoptee Identity Rights and immediately shows Adoptees access to their own 
information on health,  history and heritage in line with the equality and personal 
autonomy rights of other citizens and as voted for in two referenda”. 

15.5 Cllr. M. Whelan: 

“That Wexford County Council review its development fees for Solar farms in the 
county and raise them to a level that would reflect the impact on the local community”.  

15.6 Cllr. J. Hegarty: 

“In line with our ongoing efforts to position County Wexford as a healthy county, I call 
on Wexford County Council to pass on live information and warnings when required in 
relation to the air quality of our main towns to the general public via the Map alert 
system”.  

15.7 Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“That Wexford County Council condemns the outrageous cost overruns of the planned 
National Children’s Hospital and calls for those responsible to be held to account.” 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

15.8 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“That this Council supports our GPs campaign for better terms and conditions with the 
undoing of FEMPI legislation and to calls on the Minister for Health to engage with the 
stakeholders to ensure that practices remain open, new doctors are recruited to ensure  
that practices remain viable and that patients do not have to travel long distances for 
GP appointments”. 

15.9 Cllr. T. Forde: 

"I propose that this Council write separately to RTE, Eurovision Song Contest Ireland 
and the Irish performers, calling on all participants not to play any part in the 2019 
Eurovision Song Contest, due to be held in Israel, until Israel recognises equal rights 
for Palestinians and observers international law." 

15.10 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“That this Council considers in view of the many housing applicants, that the Council is 
not in a position to provide a social house for at present, would therefore develop a 
more direct link with letting agencies to find out what accommodations are available to 
rent within the HAP income guidelines and as far as possible which landlords will 
accept HAP.  As many applicants are under severe pressure and are often stressed 
trying to find a suitable place to rent”. 

15.11 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Social protection to abandon the costly 
piecemeal practice to reviewing all those affected by the 2012 pension rules changes 
and to reinstate the old criteria of the pre-change State pension while developing a 
mechanism to backdate the full arrears to those pensioners affected” 

15.12 Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin: 

"This Council acknowledges the large number of homeowners in County Wexford who 
are currently experiencing mortgage distress. It welcomes the passing of the first stage 
of the ‘No Consent, No Sale" legislation in Leinster House which prevents banks selling 
home mortgages to vulture funds without the consent of the borrower/home-
owner. This council is calling on all T.D.s to facilitate the speedy passage of the bill 
through the remaining legislative stages".   

15.13 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“That this Council calls on the government to reverse the decision by revenue 
to impose VAT at 23% on Food supplements from health stores”. 

All Notices of Motion deferred to the March 2019 Meeting of the Council.  

16. Any Other Business -  None 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.02.19 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Márta, 2019. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
