County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 12th March, 2018 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
T. Dempsey;   
W. Fitzharris;  
P. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
J. Mythen; 
M. Roche; 
T. Walsh; 

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
A. Donohoe;   
J. Fleming;    
W. Kavanagh; 
B.A. Murphy;  
L. O’Brien; 
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

G. Carthy; 
K. Doyle; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
O. O’Connell; 
J. O’Rourke;   
J. Sullivan;  

K. Codd-Nolan;  
T. Forde; 
R. Ireton;  
L. McDonald;  
M. Murphy; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin; 
O. Walsh; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, Senior Executive Officer; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  

Apologies:   

Councillors:   A. Connick, M. Farrell, F. Staples 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 12th February, 2018. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  D.  Hynes  seconded  by  Cllr.  P.  Kavanagh  and  agreed  by  all  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Matters Arising: 

Cllr. M. Murphy asked about progress on his motion regarding dog fouling.  It was noted 
that  the  motion  was  under  review  at  present  and  that  a  plan  will  be  brought  to  the  next 
meeting of the SPC. 

Cllr. J. Mythen asked for details of the Ambassador Programme and the Housing Protocol 
for the homeless which were to be circulated to the Members.  Mr. J. Carley, Director of 
Services, agreed that both documents would be circulated. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

Storm Emma 

The Cathaoirleach then spoke on behalf of all of the Members of the Council regarding the 
Council’s  response  to  the  recent  extreme  weather  conditions  and  Storm  Emma.    The 
Cathaoirleach  noted  that  it  was  the  worst  weather  conditions  in  35  years  and  that  the 
Indoor and Outdoor Staff of Wexford County Council made a massive contribution to deal 
with the storm conditions.   

He  thanked  other  agencies  such  as  the  Civil  Defence,  Gardai,  Ambulance  Service, 
Contractors and Farmers for their help in dealing with the emergency.  He also highlighted 
that  there  was  a  sense  of  community  amongst  the  people  of  County Wexford  and  noted 
what  a  great  County  we  have  for  working  together  to  help  those  in  difficulties  during  the 
storm period.  

He noted that a review will have to be done now to see what improvements can be made 
but that Wexford County Council got a lot of the things right and that there was no loss of 
life in County Wexford.  He said a sincere thanks to all the people involved in dealing with 
the emergency and he hoped to have an event in the future to recognise the work done. 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive, commended the huge effort of the outdoor and indoor staff 
of Wexford County Council, the Civil Defence, National Ambulance Service, the HSE, the 
Red  Cross,  the  Coastguard,  Armed  Forces  and  noted  that  the  helicopter  from  the 
Coastguard had to be brought into action 3 times to deal with serious medical issues.  The 
response to the storm showed a great example of the community pulling together for the 
good of all of the community.  He praised the staff of WCC for stepping up to the challenge 
of the extreme weather conditions.  

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  Mr. George O’Connor, Wexford Town 
  Mrs. Sheehan, Enniscorthy 
  Mr. Jim O’Neill, Duncormick 
  Mr. Hugh Dunne, Courtnacuddy 
  Mr. Patrick Kehoe, Campile 
  Mr. Willie Power, New Ross 
  Mr. John Hearne, Shelmaliers 
  Mr. Jim Hyland, Enniscorthy 
  The  family  of  Kathleen  Kavanagh,  mother  of  Sean  Kavanagh,  Senior  Engineer, 

Borough District of Wexford. 

  The family of William Ryan, father of Anne Culleton, Internal Audit 
  The family of Chris Culleton, brother in law of Catherine Culleton, Motor Tax 

Vóta Comhghairdeas 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Paul  Hynes,  La  Cote  Restaurant  on  winning  “Best  Restaurant  in  Wexford”  for  3 

years in a row 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

  New Ross Musical Society celebrating 50 years in existence  
  The birth of a new baby to the Cathaoirleach and his wife Karina 
  The Arts Department on the launch of the Arts Plan “Advancing the Arts” 
  Linda Power for International Women’s Day 
  Tadhg Furlong on his part in the Ireland Six Nations Winning Rugby Team 
  The Lodgers film which was made in Loftus Hall 
  The Library Service who recently launch a new mobile library 
  Dylan Fawsitt from Wexford who won a rugby cap with the USA 

Cllr. G. Carthy raised the issue of official invites to Members for events and he advised 
that a number of invites over the past couple of months had been received very late in 
the day.  He asked that the Executive look at the possibility of centralising invitations. 

Cllr.  P.  Kavanagh  advised  that  the  LAMA  Spring  Training  Conference  will  take  place 
shortly in Donegal and asked for Members to attend.  

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Proposed disposal of property at 7 Fairfields View, Adamstown, Co. Wexford. 

The Council considered the Notice circulated under Section 183 of the Local 
Government Act. 

On the proposal of Councillor Malcolm Byrne, seconded by Councillor Oisin O’Connell 
and agreed by all, the proposed disposal was agreed. 

3.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1  LAC1710  –  proposed  development  of  a  three  storey  apartment  block 
consisting  of  three  number  two  bedroom  apartments  and  ancillary  site 
development works at King Street Upper, Wexford.  

This item was withdrawn. 

3.2  LAC  1711  –  to  provide  6  No.  Social  Housing  Units  along  with  auxillary  and 
associated  siteworks  at  Glentire,  The  Ballagh,  (E.D.  Bolaboy),  Enniscorthy,  Co. 
Wexford.  

The  Members  noted  the  report  of  Mr.  T.  Enright,  Chief  Executive  dated  7th  March, 
2018.  On  the  proposal  of  Cllr  O.  Walsh,  seconded  by  Cllr.  J.  Mythen  the  Members 
agreed and approved the proposed development as outlined in the report. 

It  was  noted  that  there  is  no  preservation  order  on  the  existing  house  shown  on  the 
drawings. 

It was also noted that footpaths would be included as part of the housing scheme. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

4. 

3 Year Capital Programme 2018-2020:  

Ms.  A.  O’Neill,  Head  of  Finance,  presented  the  3  Year  Capital  Programme  2018-2020.  
She advised the meeting that the major projects included in the programme were limited to 
those  with  a  total  cost  value  of  €200,000  or  greater  over  the  lifetime  of  the  particular 
project.  The list was produced with the best information available at the present time.  She 
also noted that the programme will be revised each year over the three year period with an 
emphasis on the funding status of each project.   

She drew Members attention to changes within the programme as presented which assit in 
further understanding the contents including: 

1.  Funding position -  three categories have been identified within the programme 

a.  Planning stage (funding in place) 
b.  In Progress (funding approved) 
c.  Feasibility/Concept (funding to be sought) 

2.  Assignment of Project  – each project is labeled to identify the directorate  to which 

the project is assigned. 

Questions  regarding  the  programme  raised  by  the  Members  and  answered  by  Council 
Officials in attendance. 

Issues raised included the following: 

  The funding and initiation of water services projects. 
  Castlebridge public realm 
  Columbarium wall in the Municipal cemeteries 
  Ministerial sanction for the loan of €40m – current position. 
  An update on New Ross Fire Station 
  Footpaths in the districts 
  An update on Enniscorthy Courthouse 
  An update on the Market House in Gorey 

A discussion also took place about how the Council would make up the financial shortfall 
to fund some projects.  The Head of Finance advised that funding of a number of projects 
is dependent on grant income being secured.  She also advised in relation to local funding 
that  the  borrowing  approved  by  Members  at  the  February  meeting  would  provide 
significant funding for projects once ministerial sanction is secured.  The Head of Finance 
indicated that levies of between €10m-€12m estimated to be received over the 3 years of 
the programme are accounted for within the report and the programme contains additional 
projects that will only progress if funding becomes available.   

The  Head  of  Finance  also  clarified  that  the  programme  and  associated  funding  will  be 
refined annually and aligned with confirmed funding as projects progress. 

The 3 Year Capital Programme 2018-2020 was proposed by Cllr. T. Dempsey seconded 
by Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed by all.  

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

5.  Draft County Wexford Road Traffic Special Speed Limit Bye-Laws 2018 (for 

noting) 

The  Council  considered  the  report  from  Mr.  David  Codd,  Chief  Technician  in  the  Roads 
Department  regarding  the  Draft  County  Wexford  Road  Traffic  Special  Speed  Limit  Bye-
Laws 2018.  It was noted by the Members that the Bye-Laws are currently on display. The 
draft bye-laws and submissions will be presented to the Council in June/July 2018. 

6.  Draft Strategic Plan for Housing Persons with Disabilities 2016-2020 

Mr.  P.  O’Gorman,  SEO,  Housing,  presented  the  Plan  to  the  Members.    He  advised  that 
this  is  a  new  plan  that  covers  the  period  2016-2020  and  it  outlines  the  services  on  the 
ground for persons with disabilities.   

He  highlighted  the  delivery  targets  on  page  40  whereby  20%  of  allocations  for  various 
schemes would be allocated to people with disabilities.  He advised Members that Wexford 
County Council was already at the 20% target level for those areas of housing.   

He  further  advised  that  the  strategic  plan  had  been  approved  by  the  Disability  Working 
Group and the Strategic Policy Group. 

A  wide  ranging  discussion  then  took  place,  and  a  number  of  issues  raised  by  Members 
were answered by the Housing Officer and Director of Services. 

The Draft Strategic Plan for Housing Persons with Disabilities 2016-2020 was proposed by 
Cllr. T. Dempsey seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by all. 

7.  Anti-Social Behaviour Strategy 2018-2024. 

Mr.  P.  O’Gorman,  Housing  Officer,  presented  the  Anti-Social  Behaviour  Strategy  2018-
2024 and advised the meeting that Aisling Doyle had taken the lead role in developing the 
strategy.  He  advised  that  an  Anti  Social  Behaviour  Unit  has  now  been  set  up  in  the 
Housing  Directorate  to  look  at  individual cases  and  that  the  Council  will take  a  proactive 
approach in dealing with Anti-Social Behaviour.   

He further noted that the SPC and CPG have already approved the strategy and he is now 
seeking formal approval from the full Council. 

A  wide  ranging  discussion  then  took  place  and  a  number  of  issues  were  raised  by  the 
Members regarding Anti-Social Behaviour and related issues. 

Members  highlighted  the  need  to  liaise  closely  with  the  Gardai.    It  was  also  noted  that 
WCC  need  to  listen  carefully  to  Elected  Members  who  are  aware  of  situations  on  the 
ground  and  in  the  local  areas  with  regard  to  rehousing  of  families  in  particular  housing 
estates. 

Following discussion and issues raised being dealt with by Council Officials in attendance, 
a vote took place proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. R. Ireton to adopt the Anti-
Social Behaviour Strategy 2018-2024 which was agreed by all.  

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

8.  Draft Polling Scheme 2018 

The Draft Polling Scheme 2018 was then presented to the members by the County 
Secretary. The Draft Plan had been advertised for public consultation in December 2017, 
with an extension to the end of February 2018.  

A number of submissions had been received which for consideration by the Council.  

Cllrs. Kathleen Codd-Nolan and Barbara Ann Murphy made representations on behalf of 
people who had previously voted in the Polling Station of Clohamon. They asked that 
consideration be given to relocate these people to the Polling Station in Ballyroebuck, 
rather than Kilmyshall 

 it was agreed to defer the Draft Polling Scheme to the April 2018 meeting of the Council. 

At a later stage in the meeting, the County Secretary advised the meeting that the County 
Registrar is happy to accept that persons from Clohamon will now vote in Ballyroebuck. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  K.  Codd  Nolan  seconded  by  Cllr.  B.A.  Murphy  the  Draft  Polling 
Scheme 2018 was adopted, as presented, with the amendment set out above in relation to 
persons from Clohamon now voting in Ballyroebuck. 

9.  a. Draft Development Contribution Scheme 2018 

The Draft Development Contribution Scheme 2018 (Planning Levies) was circulated to the 
Members.  A draft has gone through the public consultation phase and observations from 
the Department of Housing, Planning & Local Government were received and circulated to 
the Members.  No further submissions were received.  The scheme will be an item for the 
April 2018 Meeting of the Council to allow Members to consider the matters raised in the 
report.  

9.  b. Report of Corporate Policy Group 

Report of Corporate Policy Group of 8th March 2018 was noted by the meeting.  

10. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
in relation to the following: 

Illegal dumping throughout the county 

  Update on the Third Level Campus in County Wexford 
 
  Update on Waterford Airport 
  Update on New Ross Business Park 
  Value for Money for new housing developments in Gorey and Wexford 
  Progress with regard to the Women’s Refuge 
  Department of Marine funded projects 2018 
  Lack  of  sewerage  facilities  hampering  housing  developments  in  villages  in  County 

Wexford including Tagoat 
  National Planning Framework 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Restoration works to roads affected by Enniscorthy By-Pass 
  Effect of National Planning Framework on County Development Plan 

County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

11.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

The Cathaoirleach notified Members that an invitation had been received from New York 
to  attend  the  St.  Patrick’s  Day  Parade.  It  was  agreed  that  the  Leas-Chathaoirleach 
Barbara Anne Murphy will attend on behalf of Wexford County Council. 

The  List  of  Councillors’  Conferences  including  the  trip  to  New  York  and  invitations  to  a 
number of events being held by the London Wexford Association, as set out below, were 
agreed on the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien.  

  Fr. Murphy’s GAA Club 60th Anniversary Dinner & Dance – 31st March, 2018. 
  London Wexford Association Annual Dinner Dance – 28th April, 2018. 
  London Wexford Association Towns Reunion Buffet Dance – 20th October, 2018. 

12. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. T. Walsh, and agreed by all the 
Members present the following minutes were noted and approved. 

12.1 Gorey Municipal District Meeting 16.01.18 
12.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 10.01.18 
12.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 15.01.18 
12.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 15.01.18 
12.5 Twinning Committee Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 15.01.18 
12.6Economic Development & Enterprise 28.11.17 

13. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted. 

14. Correspondence and Communications 

  Correspondence from Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice and Equality. 
  Correspondence from Data Protection Assistant Commissioner regarding access to 

housing lists.  

  Acknowledgement from Finian McGrath, TD, regarding the Rights of Persons with 

Disabilities.  

  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to the Minister for Education and Skills 

regarding schools in County Wexford. 

  Correspondence from Iarnród Éireann regarding the DART expansion. 

Cllr.  M.  Byrne  highlighted 
the  Council’s 
correspondence.    He  advised  that  there  is  no  improvement  to  the  N11  or  to  the  railway 
between  Wexford  and  Dublin  between  now  and  2040  set  out  in  the  National  Planning 
Framework.   

Iarnród  Éireann 

the  response 

from 

to 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

He asked that the Council liaise with Wicklow County Council and Dun Laoghaire County 
Council to co-ordinate a strategy to improve both the road and the rail network.  He also 
asked  that  the  letter  be  replied  to  saying  that  it  doesn’t  deal  with  the  issues  raised.  
Following  a  wide  ranging  discussion  on  these  matters  Cllr.  T.  Dempsey  proposed  and 
seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  that  the  Chief  Executive  and  the  Cathaoirleach  would 
arrange to meet with Iarnród Éireann to discuss the development of Rosslare Port. 

The Chief Executive advised that it would be more appropriate to meet with TII, given the 
poor response from Iarnród Éireann to previous proposals from the Council - it was agreed 
that such a meeting would take place. 

the  Data  Protection 
Cllr.  M.  Whelan  raised 
Commissioner and  welcomed  a  reply  in  response to  the  Council’s  motion  regarding  their 
role in housing applications.  

issue  of  correspondence 

from 

the 

15. Deferred Notice of Motion: 

15.1 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“This Council calls on the Dept of Justice to insure that the 'Spent convictions' under the 
Criminal Justice (Spent convictions and Certain Disclosures) Act 2016, that the measures 
are  followed  through  for  people  who  are  applying  for  employment  and  are  need  Garda 
vetting” 

Proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. T. Walsh and agreed by all. 

At 17.19 Councillor Willie Kavanagh left the meeting. 

16. Notices of Motion: 

16.1 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“"That this Council calls for any review or changes in the calculation or administration of 
the LPT by the Minister, to reflect a household's ability to pay, outgoings and expenses 
(including Mortgages) and should also be conducted in a way that increases, not impairs 
or reduces, the level of central funding to Local Authorities annually. Upon passage, this 
motion is to be circulated to our colleagues nationwide." 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. T. Walsh – this motion was defeated. 

At 17.30 p.m. Councillors A. Donohoe, K. Codd Nolan, M. Sheehan and T. Dempsey left 
the meeting.  The Chief Executive also left at that time.  

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. R. Ireton it was agreed that 
Standing Orders would be extended to allow the meeting to continue until 18.00 p.m. 

Item 16.5 was then dealt with: 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

16.5 Cllr. K. Codd Nolan: 

“In keeping with the tradition that a funeral cortege stops at the deceased’s place of 
residence I call on Wexford County Council to include in its Roads Policy for severe 
weather conditions any local road for gritting/salting where there is a bereavement on that 
road”. 

Proposed by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien and agreed by all that the 
matter would be referred to the Transportation SPC for further consideration.  

16.2 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“That this Council calls on the government to set up a standalone management structure 
to run Rosslare Europort, (comprising the main stake holders) not tied to Iarnród Éireann if 
it is left as is, profits will continue to be redirected away from the port . The port urgently, 
needs to develop to meet the challenge of Brexit as well the many other challenges in the 
South East Region”.  

Proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen and agreed by all 

16.3 Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin: 

“Over recent years the Government has on average provided Local Authorities with less 
than half the amount of funding they need to maintain their roads. This is despite a 
commitment made in the Programme for Government to increase the capital budget for 
regional and local roads by approximately 50%. The Government has failed to deliver on 
this commitment and the end result is terrible surface conditions for road users’ right 
across the country.” 

“At least an additional €163m is needed each year to maintain our road network to safe 
standard. Wexford County Council calls on the Government to significantly increase 
funding for regional and local roads through the Capital Investment Plan. This council also 
calls for a full response to the findings of the NOAC and a detailed plan to address the 
issues and defects identified in this report." 

"We once again call on the Minister to agree to meet with a delegation from Co.Wexford to 
discuss the need for adequate roads funding" 

Proposed by Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by all.  It was 
agreed to write to the Minister to express the Council’s disappointment that, to date, the 
Minister has not agreed to meet with Wexford County Council, and  to seek an urgent 
meeting with the Minister.  

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.03.18 

16.4  Cllr. L. McDonald: 

“That this Council is gravely concerned and disappointed about how Wexford County was 
overlooked in the National Planning Framework as announced by the Government. In 
particular with the omission of the development of Rosslare Europort therefrom. We 
hereby call for a constructive debate on the document as it pertains to Wexford County 
and in particular for the inclusion of the development of our Europort and its infrastructure”. 

Proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes.  Following discussion on the 
motion it was agreed that the Council would invite the 5 TDs for Wexford and the 2 MEP’s 
for Ireland South to a Special Meeting to deal with the development of Rosslare Europort.  
It was also agreed that a request be forwarded to Minister Ross to meet with a delegation 
from Wexford County Council to deal with the future development of Rosslare Europort 

17. Any Other Business   

The Cathaoirleach notified Members that the Chief Superintendent of Wexford Garda 
Station and the Chief Executive Officer of Wexford Chamber of Commerce would both be 
retiring in the near future and it was proposed that an event be held to mark their 
retirement prior to the April 2018 meeting. 

The Cathaoirleach advised the meeting of the membership of the Wexford Healthy Cities 
and County Committee and advised if any Members wish to join the committee they 
should contact the County Secretary or the Cathaoirleach to be included. 

The Cathaoirleach proposed that the Council recognise former Chairpersons of Wexford 
County Council and would be looking to contact families of those Cathaoirligh to arrange a 
function in their honour.  

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Aibrean, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
