County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Tuesday 11th April, 2023 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MURPHY 

BARBARA 
ANNE 

BELL 

BOLGER 

MAURA 
(Remote) 
ANDREW 
(Remote) 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

BRIDÍN 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 
(Remote) 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN  FIONNTÁN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 
(Remote) 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

KENNY 

DONAL 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

LAFFAN 

GARRY 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 
(Remote) 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

MOORE 

JIM 

Officials: 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Deputy Chief Executive 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Sinead Casey, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary  

Apologies: 

Cllr. Leonard Kelly 
Cllr. Frank Staples 
Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Votes of Sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

The family of Andrew (Andy) Kinsella, father of Conor Kinsella, Civil Technician, Environment 
Department. 
The family of William (Bill) Whitty, father of Eileen Whitty, Housing Section. 
The family of Jim Bolger, father of Eddie Bolger, Environment & Climate Change Department. 
The  family  of  Elizabeth  (Betty)  Fielding,  mother-in-law  of  Sean  Meyler,  Senior  Executive 
Engineer, Special Projects. 
The  family  of  Mary  Cosgrave,  mother  of  Tommy  Cosgrave,  New  Ross  Municipal  District, 
mother-in-law  of  Breege  Cosgrave,  Local  Enterprise  Office,  mother-in-law  of  Paul  D’Arcy, 
Clerk  of  Works,  Water  Services,  and  mother-in-law  of  Geraldine  Dowler,  Enniscorthy 
Machinery Yard. 
The family of Kitty Hynes, sister-in-law of Cllr. Davy Hynes. 
The family of Brian Doyle, stepfather of Cllr. Joe Sullivan’s wife Patricia. 
The family of Ger Finn, brother of Paul Finn, Enniscorthy Machinery Yard. 
The family of Fiadh O’Connor. 

Votes of Congratulations: 

Cllr. J. Fleming congratulated all those involved in delivering the Good Friday Agreement. 
Cllr. D. Hynes acknowledged his recently deceased sister-in-law Kitty Hynes whose volunteerism 
helped to establish Wexford’s first Women’s Refuge in Francis Street,  the building of Ozanam 
House hostel for homeless men, as well as setting up Vincent’s charity shop. 
Cllr.  F.  Ó'Súilleabháin  congratulated  Bláithín  Ennis,  jewellery  designer  who  had  some  of  her 
pieces worn at the Oscars. 
Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  congratulated  Vivian  Rath  on  his  recent  appearance  on  the  Tommy  Tiernan 
Show. 
Cllr. M. Sheehan congratulated all those involved in the shooting of “Small Things Like These” in 
New Ross. Cllr. Sheehan acknowledged the great work of the New Ross Municipal District staff 
during filming. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 

County Council Meeting 13th March, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy, the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 13th March, 2023. 

1.1.1  Matters Arising  

Cllr. B.A. Murphy welcomed the successful Fleadh Cheoil na hÉireann bid and 
felt it may be an opportune time for South East Radio to re-introduce the half 
hour Irish music slot. 

Cllr. J. O’Rourke enquired if there was any update on the issue, he raised in 
relation to the out of hours service. Mr. M. Drea advised that he had contacted 
the company who had provided him with feedback which he would share with 
Cllr. O’Rourke. Mr. Drea also advised that there is to be a follow up meeting. 

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

2.  Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1       Intention to lease the former Bank of Ireland premises at St. Martin’s Road, 
Rosslare Harbour, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore, the Council resolved to lease 
the former Bank of Ireland premises at St. Martin’s Road, Rosslare Harbour to Rosslare 
Harbour Development Board CLG in accordance with the terms of the S. 183 Notice, as 
circulated. 

3.  Annual Financial Statement 2022 and AFS Report 

Ms. A. O’Neill gave an overview to Members of the exceptional events that saw the 
outturn for the 2022 Financial year significantly over budget and confirmed that in the 
main funding had been received to assist the Council meeting these additional costs.  Ms. 
O’Neill then noted that despite another year of unexpected occurrences the outturn for 
the year resulted in a small surplus of €48,733 adding to the small surplus achieved at the 
end of 2021 and bringing the Revenue Account position to a surplus of €85,417. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Annual Financial Statement 2022 (Pre Audit).  

Ms. A. O’Neill gave an overview of the 2022 Wexford County Council Final Accounts Report 
to Members, as circulated. In accordance with Section 104 of the Local Government Act 
2001, Ms. O’Neill sought the approval of the Council to: 

•  Budget adjustments in respect of exceptional items together with the 2022 roads 
grant movement (€15,715,475) and additional expenditure over 2022 budget 
(€11,670,852 less under spend of €874,000), as outlined. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved to 
approve the budget adjustments in respect of exceptional items together with the 2022 
roads grant movement and additional expenditure over 2022 budget. 

4.  Wexford County Council Audit Committee Charter 

Ms. A. O’Neill circulated the Audit Committee Charter which is subject to annual review by 
the Audit Committee and the Council. The Charter is required to go before the Council for 
consideration and adoption. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh, the Council resolved 
to adopt the Wexford County Council Audit Committee Charter. 

5.  Nomination of PPN Representative to Housing & Community SPC 

Ms. C. Godkin advised that further to a request made to the PPN seeking a replacement for 
the vacant “social inclusion” pillar for the Housing and Community SPC, Anne Sharry is the 
recommended nominee. 

Page 3 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes, the Council resolved to 
accept the nomination of Anne Sharry to the vacant “social inclusion” pillar for the Housing 
and Community SPC. 

6.  Membership of KIMO and International Board Meeting 

Ms. C. Godkin circulated a memo outlining that Wexford County Council membership of 
KIMO was discussed and recommended through the Strategic Policy Committee meeting of 
27th May 2021 and approved in principle.  

Ms. C. Godkin sought the approval of the Members to Wexford County Council becoming 
members of KIMO and a recommendation that Cllr. Jim Moore, given his role on the SPC 
act as the Council’s representative.   

Ms. C. Godkin advised that the next International Board meeting, will take place on 11th / 
12th May 2023, hosted by Vordingborg Municipality, Denmark (about 100km south of 
Copenhagen) and Wexford County Council have been invited to attend and speak about 
the challenges that face Wexford with regard to marine pollution. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy, the Council resolved to 
approve Wexford County Council’s membership of KIMO and attendance at the 
International Board meeting. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan proposed to suspend standing orders to allow his motion in relation to the 
A-D Caller be moved as there was a delegation from Abled Disabled Wexford in 
attendance, Cllr. O. Walsh seconded the proposal, and all agreed. 

The motion moved by Cllr. M. Sheehan was as follows: 

"That Wexford Council endorses and remains committed to the roll out of the Able 
Disabled campaign as a means of inclusion and prioritising the needs of those with a 
disability by companies and utilities. 

Furthermore, as part of the evolving nationwide expansion of the AD call sign, this Council 
calls on all Chambers of Commerce members, County Councils and all utilities to engage, 
promote, and sign up to the AD Aware Programme as part of their corporate social 
responsibilities. 

Upon passage, this motion is circulated to all Local Authorities, Chambers of Commerce 
Ireland, Regulators and Government Information Service for dissemination.” 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by 
all. The Members acknowledged the motion and those present from Able Disabled with a 
round of applause. 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

7.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Deputy Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide 
range of queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Request for Wexford County Council’s spend on coastal erosion works over the past 20 

years. 

•  Progress of Rosslare Harbour Access Road. 
•  Request for commitment that land will be purchased in the Rosslare/Kilrane area for 

housing. 

•  Query if funding is in place for the Courtown marina works. 
•  Query if the end of the existing pier in Courtown can be built on. 
•  Request that the Murphy Floods site be cleaned up. 
•  Next steps for development of the Murphy Floods site. 
•  Will water capacity in Enniscorthy increase on a rolling basis during works or will capacity 
only increase in May 2025 on completion of works? Will there be an impact on supply 
during the works. 

•  Are the consultants on the Enniscorthy Flood Relief scheme on track to complete work by 

quarter 3/2023? 

•  What is awaited to progress the Enniscorthy Flood Relief scheme? 
•  Request that Wexford County Council secure planning for serviced sites which they could 

sell in New Ross as there is no private development. 

•  Possibility of adding cost of refuse provider to tenant’s rent if Wexford County Council 

tenant is found to be illegally dumping. 

•  Status of proceedings to deal with odour issue at Ballyminaun. 
•  Need for additional dog wardens. 
•  Position in relation to property impacted by pyrite/mica. 
•  Frustration in relation to timeline for delivery of units at Wexford St., Gorey and Tobair 

Mhuire, Gorey. 

•  Possibility of recruiting a second Town Regeneration Officer. 
•  Query if someone from another County caught littering in Wexford can be prosecuted by 

Wexford County Council. 

•  Traffic management issues on N80. 
•  Timeline for getting public lighting faults fixed. 
•  Need for active travel funding in Enniscorthy MD area. 
•  Distribution of Community Involvement Scheme funding? 
•  Update on expressions of interest for Butlersland. 
•  Criteria used to identify potential hotel location sites in New Ross. 
•  Criteria to be used to identify properties for the 2023 Property Acquisition Scheme. 
•  Issues in relation to access at Glenbrook estate in Wexford. 
•  Request for list of special projects and timelines for delivery. 
•  Request for clarification on the number of people on the housing list in Rosslare MD. 
•  Concerns over the removal of bottle banks in Fethard. 
•  Provisions put in place to deal with evictions in Rosslare MD. 
•  Request to review cases where tenants were evicted prior to tenant-in-situ scheme being 

introduced. 

•  Request for road in Rochestown to be resurfaced. 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

•  Update in relation to LAG land in Taghmon being developed by Respond. 
•  CE and Deputy CE were thanked for their assistance over the weekend dealing with a 

sewage incident in Kilmore. 

•  Query as to what analysis was undertaken on sand, water etc. after sewage incident in 

Kilmore. 

•  Frustration that AHB’s don’t have the same policy in relation to pets. 

Cllr.’s Jackser Owens, Davy Hynes and Mary Farrell left the meeting at this point. 

•  Are there other schemes like long-term leasing available? 
•  Is the Housing department sufficiently staffed? 
•  What happens now that no one tendered for the Enniscorthy Local Area Plan? 
•  Complaint about condition of Ballinesker road. 
•  Are Housing taking advantage of the changes to the tenant-in-situ thresholds. 
•  Adequacy of information provided by planning at pre-planning meetings. 
•  Need for clarity for the public in relation to the tenant-in-situ and cost rental tenant-in-situ 

schemes. 

•  Request for tenant-in-situ stats to be included in the Chief Executives Report. 

Cllr. L. McDonald left the meeting at this point. 

•  New units in Grantstown not included in CE Report. How do we expedite the delivery of 

the new units in Grantstown? 

•  Are there sufficient resources to deliver Heritage Plan, Bio-Diversity Plan, Climate Action 

Plan, Conservation Plan? 

•  Proposal that there should be a Vacant Homes Officer in each MD. 
•  Update in relation to unit at Ard Lios and 5 units in Riverchapel which are reportedly ready 

for allocation but vacant for months. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

8.  Minutes of CPG Meeting 3rd April, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 3rd April, 2023. 

9.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

9.1      New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 8th February, 2023 
9.2      Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 15th February, 2023 
             9.3      Borough District of Wexford Meeting– 20th February, 2023 
             9.4      Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 20th February, 2023 
             9.5      Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 21st February, 2023 
             9.6      Economic Development & Enterprise SPC – 1st December, 2022 

The minutes of the above meetings were noted. 

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

10. Correspondence and Communications 

            10.1    Letter from Clare County Council re resolution dated 14th March, 2023 
            10.2    Letter from Sligo County Council re resolution dated 16th March, 2023 
            10.3    Email from Brendan Howlin TD re motion dated 27th March, 2023 
            10.4    Email from Minister Darragh O’Brien, TD re: motion dated 3rd April, 2023 
            10.5    Letter from Offaly County Council re: resolution dated 3rd April, 2023 
            10.6    Email from Minister Foley's Office re: motion dated 3rd April, 2023 

The Members noted the above correspondence. 

11. Councillor’s Conferences and Training 

11.1  List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan, the Council approved 
attendance for the following conferences: 

Conference: 

5th – 6th April ‘23 

19th April 

“Inspiring Rural Creativity” – The Suck Valley Way Conference 2023, 
Co. Roscommon – Fee €140 

“Connecting, Communicating and Collaborating – Irish Regions Co-
operating across the EU: How Local Authorities can engage in 
European programmes” – Radisson Blu Hotel in Athlone. 

11.2 

  Councillor's Conference Reports: 

•  New York Delegation Report March, 2023 – Cllr. G. Laffan and Cllr. M. 

Whelan 

•  Hartford Delegation Report March, 2023 – Cllr. A. Connick and Cllr. J. Fleming 
•  Savannah Delegation Report March, 2023 Cathaoirleach G. Lawlor, Cllr. M. 
Bell, Cllr. D. Kenny, Cllr. A. Browne, Cllr. M. Sheehan, Cllr. L. McDonald 

The Members noted the reports above, as circulated. 

12. Notices of Motion 

Cathaoirleach G. Lawlor advised that Cllr. T. Forde had submitted a motion earlier in the 
day seeking to have an emergency motion moved in accordance with standing order no. 
20. 

Mr. M. Drea advised that standing order no. 20 states “Notwithstanding any other 
provisions of these Standing Orders a motion may be proposed without notice for the 
purpose of dealing with urgent business related to a function of the local authority, subject 
to the requirement that not less than 18 members vote in favour.”  

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

Mr. M. Drea read out the motion to the Members and the Cathaoirleach advised that there 
would be a roll call vote which required a minimum of 18 in favour for the motion to be 
moved. The outcome was the motion wasn’t moved with 11 in favour and 13 against. The 
voting was as follows: 

WALSH,  
OLIVER 
WHELAN, 
MICHAEL 

A 

A 

BARDEN,  
PAT 

BOLGER, ANDREW 

BREEN,  
PIP 

BROWNE, AIDAN 

BYRNE, CATHAL 

CARTHY,  
GER 
CODD,  
JIM 
CODD-NOLAN, 
KATHLEEN 

CONNICK, ANTHONY 

DEVEREUX, 
DIARMUID 

FLEMING, JOHN 

F 

A 

A 

A 

F 

F 

F 

A 

F 

A 

A 

FORDE, TOM 

KAVANAGH, WILLIE 

KENNY, DONAL 

LAFFAN, GARRY 

LAWLOR, GEORGE 

MOORE,  
JIM 

MURPHY, BRIDÍN 

O’ROURKE, JOHN 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN, 
FIONNTÁN 

SHEEHAN, MICHAEL 

SULLIVAN,  
JOE 

F 

A 

A 

A 

F 

F 

F 

F 

F 

A 

A 

12.1  Cllr. Bridin Murphy 

“That Wexford County Council welcomes the decision by government to extend the 
Croi Conaithe Vacant Property Refurbishment Grant to those who wish to renovate a 
vacant or derelict property and rent it out. This council further calls on government to 
increase the vacant property refurbishment grant rates from their current €30,000/ 
€50,000 to €50,000/ €70,000 respectively to reflect the significant costs involved in 
renovating a vacant or derelict property. “ 

Executive Response: 
If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing, Local Government 
and Heritage, for consideration. 

Cllr. G. Laffan recused himself from the meeting due to a conflict of interest. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. B. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne. There was 
confusion as to whether the changes had been enacted and clarification was sought in 
relation to the implementation date for the change. Cllr. B. Murphy confirmed that the 
change is to be implemented from 1st May, 2023. On the basis of the changes being 
introduced from the 1st May, 2023, the motion was carried. 

Cllr. G. Laffan returned to the meeting. 

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.2  Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin 

County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

"Wexford County Council notes the long overrun in the completion period for some of 
our major projects, as well as the high overspend for some of our projects in 
comparison to the original projected cost. As a potential solution, this Council will (a) 
endeavour to insert a Sunset-type clause to tie developers to an agreed completion 
date on projects and (b) that we will insert a Social Inclusion Contract to ensure a 
higher percentage of local labour gets employed and (c) will look at the model of 
Community Wealth Building as introduced in some local authority areas abroad. (CWB 
seeks to leverage existing local and regional resources to provide workers, families, and 
communities with greater control over their own economic development and ensure 
money is kept in the local economy). As an example, in Co. Wexford, this could entail 
the breaking down of a contract into smaller parts. For example, on the recent Gorey 
Town Park project, one local company would have been employed to do the soft 
landscaping; another the hard surface works, and another the building works, 
playground etc. This alternative model is more beneficial to the local economy and 
local businesses than the current model which would appear to favour a single larger 
company. 
That we support such a proposal as part of the LECP consultation process" 

Executive Response: 
Wexford County Council, in the delivery of all projects and works, will continue to 
support local and regional enterprises and resources, while also being mindful of the 
Council’s obligations under the Public Spending Code, procurement legislation and 
contract administration. 

All Procurement in Wexford County Council is governed by both Irish Procurement 
Regulations and EU Directives. These rules and regulations clearly outline how we 
procure contractors for Civil Works and the rights of both parties through the life of the 
contract, tender documents used by Wexford County Council allow for consortium 
bids, in essence a group of smaller contractors joining together to bid for the contract 
in its entirety. 
The breakdown of larger contracts happens naturally in the construction industry 
where a main contractor employs subcontractors to carry varying proportions of the 
work, these subcontractors tend to be locally based and offer the best service to main 
contractor. This is what happened in the example outlined below Gorey Town Park.  

Increased cost of a contract may occur for many different reasons like change of 
requirements/specification during life of contract, construction inflation and 
unforeseen circumstances that could not have been envisaged at tender stage.  

The motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde. Mr. E. 
Hore raised concerns about the Council’s ability to implement the motion due to the 
requirements of procurement legislation. Cllr. C. Byrne proposed an amendment to 
include the words “where possible” at the end of the motion, which was accepted by 
Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin and the amended motion was carried. 

12.3  Cllr. Kathleen Codd Nolan & Cllr. Cathal Byrne 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

“We call on the Minister for Health Stephen Donnelly T.D. to immediately put in place 
under the new HSE Service Plan 2023 a multi-agency approach to provide permanent 
Palliative Care measures for terminally ill children in the South East so that they can be 
cared for by their families at home in their final days.” 

Executive Response: 
If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Health, for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and 
carried. 

Cllr. J. Sullivan proposed that the motion should also be forwarded to Wexford County 
Council’s representatives on the Regional Health Forum, to be raised at that forum. 
This was agreed by all. 

12.4 

Savannah Delegation 2023 - Cathaoirleach George Lawlor, Cllr. Maura Bell, Cllr. 
Donal Kenny, Cllr. Aidan Browne, Cllr. Michael Sheehan, Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That this Council calls on the Government, Aviation Industry, Tourism Providers and 
the Regulator to work together to ensure a direct international flight service between 
Ireland and Savannah, Georgia be launched as a matter of urgency to ensure the 
continued evolution and development of the strategic economic, tourism, social and 
academic collaborative relationship between Wexford and Savannah is enhanced.  

Furthermore, this Council calls on the US Embassy to use its influence to ensure full 
cooperation from US Authorities in this regard.” 

Executive Response: 
If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Government, U.S. Embassy, Aviation 
Industry, Tourism Providers and the Regulator, for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and carried. 

13. Any Other Business 

There was no other business. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Bealtaine, 2023. 

________________________  
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 10 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
