County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 14th April 2025 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Forde  

Tom 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Barron 

Boland 

Vicky 

Nicky 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Rourke 

John 

Kehoe 

Pat 

Shannon 

Raymond 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Sheehan 

Carthy 

Codd 

Ger 

Jim 

Kenny 

Laffan 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

McDonald 

Garry 
(Online) 
Darragh 

Donal 

Staples 

Staples 

Sullivan 

Walsh 

Walsh 

Doyle 

Dwyer 

Farrell 

Craig 

John 

Mary 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Fleming 

John 

Murphy 

Marty 

Officials: 

Ms. Jacqueline Carroll, Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Liz Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Lynda Lacey, Director of Finance 
Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: Cllr. Jackser Owens 

Michael 
(Online) 
Frank  
(Online) 
Robbie 

Joe 

Catherine  

Oliver 

Page 1 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of Raymond Hunt, father of Graeme Hunt, Executive Planner and father-in-law 

of Sonia Hunt, Executive Planner. 

•  The family of Mary Wadding, mother of Bernard Wadding, Finance Section. 
•  The family of Jack Stanley, father of Liz Stanley and father-in-law of Debbie Stanley, Gorey 

Municipal District Office. 

•  The family of Mary Kate Broaders, mother of Geraldine Broaders (former employee). 
•  The family Patsy Whelan, sister of Dymphna O’Connor, Community Section, Angie Malone,  

Local Enterprise Office and aunt of Craig Flaherty, Finance Section. 

•  The family of Barry Wotton father of Jamie Chamberlain, CSU and father-In-law of Aoife 

Cullen, Finance Section. 

•  The family of Eamonn White, Roleen, Duncormick, brother of Anne White (former 

employee) and uncle of Fiona Bennett, Special Projects. 

•  The family of Fr. John Hennebry O.S.A, former Principal of Good Counsel College. 
•  The family of Kathleen Delaney (née Fortune), Glenour, Adamstown. 

Congratulations: 

•  Cllr.’s A. Browne and J. Fleming congratulated the Wexford Football League on their extra-

time victory against Limerick to win the Oscar Traynor Trophy. 

•  Cllr. J. Fleming congratulated Rory McIlroy on completing the career grand slam by winning 

the Masters. 

•  Cllr. J. Codd congratulated Paddy Berry, President of Craobh Loch Garman for his lifetime 

contribution to traditional music and culture.  

•  Cllr. J. Codd congratulated Alice and Caitlin Kavanagh for calling out racism they were 

subjected to in the Bullring in Wexford. 

•  Cllr. J. Codd congratulated all those involved in the Ability’s Got Talent event, particularly 

Karina Browne, overall winner. 

•  Cllr. A.R. O’Brien congratulated all those involved with the inaugural Pecker Dunne festival, 
particularly Cllr. T. Forde who organised it and Cllr.’s L. Kelly, J. Codd, and J. Owens for their 
contributions. 

•  Cllr. J. Dwyer congratulated New Ross River Search and Rescue who have saved four people 

from the river in recent times. 

•  Cllr. C. Walsh congratulated Wexford CBS on winning the All-Ireland U17 Schools Soccer 

Final. 

•  Cllr. C. Walsh congratulated all those involved in the launch of Fleadh Cheoil na hÉireann 

2025. 

Mr. E. Hore, Deputy Chief Executive welcomed new Director of Services Ms. J. Carroll to Wexford 
County Council and wished her well in her new role. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1  County Council Meeting 10th March, 2025 

Page 2 of 12 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
confirm the minutes of the County Council Meeting on 10th March, 2025. 

Matters Arising: 
Cllr. G. Carthy outlined his belief that Wexford County Council has a duty of care to have 
regard to the environmental impact when considering planning exemptions. Cllr. Carthy 
asked that the intensification of development at the Denby Lodge be notified to the EPA. 

2.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001 : 

2.1 Intention to grant a deed of easement – Maudlintown, Forth, Co. Wexford 
 On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. R. Shannon the Council resolved to 
grant a deed of easement at Maudlintown, Forth, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.2 Intention to allow for the provision of a wayleave – traverses land at Nos. 11 and 12 
Nolan’s Lawn, Bellefield, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford 
 On the proposal of Cllr. A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Council resolved to 
allow for the provision of a wayleave which traverses land at Nos. 11 and 12 Nolan’s Lawn, 
Bellefield, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated. 

2.3 Intention to dispose of property at 22 High Hill Street, New Ross, Co. Wexford 
 On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at 22 High Hill Street, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.4 Intention to dispose of property at 16 Haughton Place, New Ross, Co. Wexford 
 On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at 16 Haughton Place, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.5 Intention to dispose of property at 16 Chapel Lane, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 
 On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at 16 Chapel Lane, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 
Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended) 

3.1 LAC2407 - Construction of 92 no. residential units along with a full-size soccer pitch, 
smaller training/astroturf pitch, parking area and changing facilities. The 92 no. housing 
units will consist of: 20 no. maisonette one-bed apartment units; 8 no. single storey one-
bed independent and supported living units; 24 no. two-storey semi-detached and terrace 
two-bed houses; 2 no. single storey two-bed supported living units; 34 no. two-storey 
semi-detached and terrace three-bed houses; 4 no. two-storey semi-detached four-bed 
houses and associated site works, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

Page 3 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, 
seconded by Cllr. M. Murphy, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the 
construction of 92 no. residential units along with a full-size soccer pitch, smaller 
training/astroturf pitch, parking area and changing facilities at Castlemoyle, New Ross, in 
accordance with the terms of LAC2407, as circulated. 

4. 

Draft Casual Trading Bye-Laws Fleadh Cheoil na hEireann, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. V. Barron, seconded by Cllr. R. Staples the Council resolved to 
adopt the Casual Trading Bye-Laws Fleadh Cheoil na hEireann, 2025. 

5. 

Draft Street Performance Bye-Laws 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. V. Barron, seconded by Cllr. C. Walsh the Council resolved to adopt 
the Street Performance Bye-Laws 2025. 

6. 

Local Authority Home Loan (LAHL) 

Ms. L. Lacey informed the Council that Wexford County Council has been notified that its 
Local Authority Home Loan allocation for lending in 2025 is €9,710,000. Ms. Lacey advised 
that the Department has also authorised Wexford County Council to seek approval for 
borrowing of 20% of the 2025 allocation for 2026.   This is to ensure there are no delays in 
issuing approval in principle letters in 2026 pending the official notification of the 2026 
allocation. 

In accordance with Section 106 of the Local Government Act 2001 on the proposal of Cllr. 
B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the Council resolved to approve borrowings of 
€9,710,000 in respect of 2025 and €1,942,000 in respect of 2026 to fund Local Authority 
Home Loans. 

7. 

Annual Financial Statement 2024 and AFS Report 

Ms. L. Lacey gave an overview of the 2024 Wexford County Council Final Accounts Report 
to Members, as circulated. In accordance with Section 104 of the Local Government Act 
2001, Ms. Lacey sought the approval of the Council to: 

•  Budget adjustments in respect of exceptional items together with the Increased 
Cost of Business (ICOB) Grant, Increased Cost of Business 2 (ICOB2) Grant, Power 
Up Grant (PUG), 2024 roads grant movement and additional expenditure over 2024 
budget amounting to €31.2m, as outlined in Part 1, 2, and 3 of the circulated 
report.  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Dwyer, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the Council resolved to 
approve the Annual Financial Statement 2024 and the budget adjustments in respect of 
exceptional items. 

Page 4 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

8. 

Housing Construction Estate Naming Policy 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Housing Construction Estate Naming Policy, as circulated. 

9. 

Invitation to delegation from Wexford – 50th Anniversary Twinning Agreement Lugo-
Kulmbach 2nd May, 2025 to 4th May, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the Council resolved to 
approve a delegation to travel to Lugo for the 50th Anniversary Twinning Agreement. 

10. 

Invitation to delegation to travel to 6th International Symposium of the Remembrance 
Cities network – Dunkirk (France) and Ypres (Belgium) – 21st May, 2025 to 24th May, 
2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the Council resolved to 
approve a delegation to travel to 6th International Symposium of the Remembrance Cities 
network – Dunkirk (France) and Ypres (Belgium). 

11. 

Approval sought for delegation to travel to KIMO Board Meeting Denmark - May 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the Council resolved to 
approve a delegation to travel to the KIMO Board Meeting in Denmark. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne, the Council resolved to 
appoint Cllr. L. McDonald as the KIMO delegate. 

12. 

PPN Sectoral Nominations to SPC's 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, the Council resolved to 
appoint the following PPN sectoral nominations to SPC’s: 

SPC 
1 

Economic Development & 
Enterprise 

Environmental Rep 

Roisin Markham 

Community & Rural Affairs 

Social Inclusion Rep 

John Waters 

SPC 
4 

SPC 
5 

Climate Change, Environment 
and Biodiversity 

Community/Voluntary Rep 

Peter O’Connor 

Environmental Rep 

Natasha Ariff 

Page 5 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

13. 

Nomination of Ms. Inez Brennan to LCDC replacing Ms. Meghan Callanan, Department of 
Social Protection 

On the proposal of Cllr. C. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne, the Council resolved to 
appoint Ms. Inez Brennan to the LCDC replacing Ms. Meghan Callanan, Department of 
Social Protection. 

14. 

Draft Annual Report 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, the Council resolved to 
adopt the draft Annual Report 2024. 

Eddie Taaffe, Chief Executive joined the meeting at this point. 

15. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Concern expressed in relation to Uisce Éireann’s forward planning on projects. Kilmore 
Quay project was referenced as an example where the expenditure was to bring the 
plant up to current regulation standards rather than providing additional capacity for 
future development. 

•  Request that mediation be used to try and resolve the impasse between two groups in 
Kilmore in relation to a proposed ORIS funded walking trail where the community is at 
risk of losing out on funding of €0.5m. 

•  Disappointment expressed that the funding secured for pavement improvement works 

in Killinick won’t result in any traffic calming measures to reduce speed. 

•  Update sought on the Clohamon and Ballycarney junctions. 
•  Clarification sought on whether vacant commercial premises which aren’t available to 

let can avail of a rates abatement. 

•  Query in relation to the timeline for the drafting of development plans for the towns. 
•  Request that Wexford County Council write to TII asking that the section of road at 

Leeches bend be realigned thereby bypassing the dangerous bend. 

•  How many units does Wexford County Council think it can acquire through the tenant in 

situ scheme having regard to the budget and revised terms of the scheme?  

•  How many tenant in situ applications does Wexford County Council have on hand from 

2024? 

•  Request that the Housing Department consider a policy whereby if a tenant of Wexford 
County Council has room in their property, they would be allowed to let another family 
member(s) reside in the property. This was proposed as a method of relieving 
overcrowding in certain cases. 

•  Query if costings have been obtained for an additional road gritter to service some rural 

roads which currently aren’t on the winter maintenance programme. 

•  Update sought on the timeline for the completion of the Curracloe Water Sports centre. 
•  Frustration expressed in relation to water pressure issues and outages being 

experienced in Wexford town in areas such as Whiterock Hill. 

•  Update sought on Castlebridge active travel proposals. 

Page 6 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

•  Query if Wexford County Council provides advice in relation to best practice to 
community groups engaging in large scale funding applications such as Oris. 

Cllr. Michael Sheehan joined the meeting at this point. 

•  What Trinity Wharf works are planned to take place in 2026? 
•  Does the Planning Department employ an ecologist considering nature restoration 

targets? 

•  Has the ESB provided an update in relation to the resilience of the network in Wexford? 
•  Update sought on the plans for the Dun Mhuire site. 
•  Request that people at risk of being evicted be treated favourably when it comes to 

social housing allocations. 

•  Clarification sought if increases in old age social welfare allowance for over 80’s are 

disregarded for rent purposes. 

•  Is there a timeframe for social workers to respond to issues once brought to their 

attention? 

•  Request that discretion be exercised in relation to the commencement of rent charges 

where tenants cannot move into their local authority house within 1 week. 

•  Case of lady who is having issues surrendering her four-bed house in New Ross was 

raised. 

•  Who is responsible for ensuring planning exemption is in place and fire safety 

regulations are met for IPAS centres? 

•  View expressed that there needs to be more prosecutions for dumping. 
•  View expressed that the RSA needs to put a course in place educating young people who 

are driving heavy machinery. 

•  What steps have been taken to improve housing wrap around services? 
•  Request for a briefing on the cost rental scheme. 
•  How will tenant in situ applicants who were carried over from 2024 but are no longer 

eligible under the new terms of the scheme be dealt with? 

•  Request for additional signage on the left-hand side of the N25 for junctions as you 

travel from Wexford. 

•  Query how the 60km speed limit which was introduced in Killinick for road works can be 

retained and implemented at the Coal Bunker in Drinagh. 

•  Request for a briefing memo setting out the facts of the tenant in situ scheme including 

funding. 

•  Update sought on the active travel plans for the Old Dublin Road Business Park in 

Enniscorthy. 

•  Query what the plans are for the HPBA in Enniscorthy and what has been spent on it to 

date. 

•  Is there a local or national policy on the installation of speed ramps? 
•  Request that the signage at Ballycarney Junction include flashing lights and the wording 

“Dangerous Junction Ahead”. 

•  Congratulations extended to all those involved in bringing McDonald’s to New Ross. 
•  Update sought on plans for the old Court House in New Ross and Bumble Bee site. 
•  What are Wexford County Council’s plans to increase housing delivery and targets in 

light of the new Planning Framework? 

Page 7 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

Cllr.’s F. Staples, J. O’Rourke, and O. Walsh left the meeting at this point. 

16.  Minutes of CPG 

16.1 Minutes of CPG Meeting 7th April, 2025 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny the Council resolved to 
adopt the minutes of the CPG Meeting on 7th April, 2025. 

17.  Minutes of Meetings (for Noting): 

17.1 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 18th February, 2025 
17.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 12th February, 2025 
17.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 17th February, 2025 
17.4 Protocol Meeting - Borough District of Wexford – 17th February, 2025 
17.5 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 18th February, 2025 
17.6 Rosslare Municipal District – 24th March, 2025 & 19th February, 2025 
17.7 Housing SPC - 27th February, 2005 

 The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

18. 

Correspondence and Communications 

18.1 Letter from Clare County Council re: motion dated 11th March, 2025 
18.2 Letter from HSE, South East Community Healthcare re: motion dated 12th March, 2025 
18.3 Email from TII re motion dated 18th March, 2025 

 The Members noted the correspondence, as circulated. 

19. 

Councillor's Conferences and Training 

19.1 List of Conferences / Training 

9th – 11th April 

Irish Planning Institute – Annual Planning Conference 
Salthill Hotel, Galway. Fee €515 per attendee. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy, the Council resolved to 
approve attendance at the Irish Planning Institute Annual Planning Conference from the 9th 
– 11th April. 

19.2 Delegation Reports: 
· Australia Delegation – 27th February – 7th March, 2025 
· Hartford Delegation – 13th – 18th March, 2025 
· Savannah/Atlanta, Georgia Delegation – 12th – 21st March, 2025 
· New York Delegation Report – 12th March, - 20th March, 2025 
· Coetentin, Normandy, France – 20th March, - 24th March, 2025 

Page 8 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Members noted the reports, as circulated. 

20. 

Notices of Motion 

County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

20.1 Cllr. Craig Doyle 
“I call on this council to conduct an audit of all vacant and derelict buildings with a view of 
identifying suitable buildings to be turned into schools for children with special needs. 
If passed I also call for this motion to be circulated to all other local authorities to do the 
same" 

This motion wasn’t moved. 

20.2 Cllr. John Dwyer 
“That this council calls on the Minister for Health to urgently consider a diversion 
programme for suicide prevention to establish a professional 24/7 counselling service 
attached to and working in conjunction with existing accident and emergency departments 
throughout the country”. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Dwyer, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by all. 

Cllr. A. Donohoe left the meeting at this point. 

20.3 Cllrs. Tom Forde, Aoife Rose O'Brien, Craig Doyle 
"Wexford County Council fully recognises the positive role the Tenant In Situ Scheme has 
played in preventing many adults and children from entering homelessness. 
We are concerned that restrictions to the scheme will reduce the ability of the Council to 
do everything that it can to prevent people from losing their home. 
We are particularly concerned that the capital allocation for 2025 will be less than the final 
spend on the scheme in 2024; that refurbishment costs will be excluded; that an arbitrary 2 
year in receipt of social housing support rule will be applied to properties. 
We agree to write to the Minister for Housing, James Browne, urging him not to increase 
the risk of adults and children entering homelessness by removing the new restrictions to 
the operation of the Tenant-In-Situ scheme or reductions in funding to this vital homeless 
prevention measure." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien.  

The Cathaoirleach advised that there would be a roll call vote on the motion. The outcome 
was the motion was carried with fifteen in favour, ten against, and one abstention. The 
voting was as follows: 

Barden, Pat 

AB 

Kavanagh, Paddy 

F 

Sullivan, Joe 

Barron, Vicky 

Boland, Nicky 

F 

F 

Kehoe, Pat 

A  Walsh, Catherine Biddy 

Kelly, Leonard 

F 

A 

F 

Page 9 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

Breen, Pip 

Browne, 
Aidan 
Carthy, Ger 

Codd, Jim 

Doyle, Craig 

Dwyer, John 

Farrell, Mary 

Fleming, John 

Forde, Tom 

A 

A 

F 

F 

F 

F 

F 

A 

F 

Kenny, Donal 

Laffan, Garry 

McDonald, Darragh 

Murphy,  Barbara 
Anne 
Murphy, Bridín 

-

Murphy, Marty 

O’Brien, Aoife Rose 

Shannon, Raymond 

Sheehan, Michael 

A 

A 

A 

A 

A 

F 

F 

F 

F 

20.4 Cllr. Michael Sheehan 
“Recognising the huge contributions that Local Schools, Boards of Management, School 
Principals and staff, families and students play in the vitality of our local villages and 
parishes, this Council calls on the Minister for Education to review the funding for smaller 
schools to ensure their continued viability and operation by basing support grants and 
funding on (the physical) school size rather that enrolment numbers. Furthermore, this 
Council calls on Minister Mc Entee to ensure all schools have access to the €30M in the day 
to day support fund. “ 

Cllr. V. Barron proposed an amendment to the motion to read “funding on (the physical) 
school size and condition of the school.” 

Cllr. J. Fleming proposed an amendment to the motion to read “funding on school size 
(square footage) and condition of the school.” 

The proposed amendments were accepted by Cllr. M. Sheehan. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. V. Barron, and agreed by all, the 
following amended motion was carried: 

“Recognising the huge contributions that Local Schools, Boards of Management, School 
Principals and staff, families and students play in the vitality of our local villages and 
parishes, this Council calls on the Minister for Education to review the funding for smaller 
schools to ensure their continued viability and operation by basing support grants and 
funding on school size (square footage) and condition of the school rather that enrolment 
numbers. Furthermore, this Council calls on Minister Mc Entee to ensure all schools have 
access to the €30M in the day to day support fund. “ 

Page 10 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

20.5 Cllr. Aoife Rose O’Brien 
"We ask that Wexford County Council write to the Minister for Justice, Jim O'Callaghan 
asking for the Department of Justice to introduce a live garda register for previous 
domestic violence offenders, similar to Claires Law." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed by 
all. 

20.6 Cllr. Joe Sullivan 
“I call on this council to write to the Department of Housing Local Government and 
Heritage to request that they upwardly review the thresholds of income eligibility for social 
housing supports in County Wexford.” 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. C. Doyle and agreed by all. 

20.7 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"We ask that Wexford County Council introduce a 'receipts' based system for the public 
when submitting housing applications and related documents to the council which would 
provide a record for the submission of documents." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed by all. 

20.8 Cllr. Michael Sheehan 
“That this Council recognises the need to protect and enhance Town Centres and protect 
Town Centre Retail provision, agrees to direct the Planning and Development SPC to review 
and reinforce Wexford County Council’s policies and guidelines to protect ground floor 
retails space and to discourage the conversion of dedicated shop areas into apartments 
and bedsits in urban centres. Furthermore, this council calls on the Government to make 
funding available to assist the reopening of vacant shop units. “ 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. V. Barron and agreed by 
all. 

20.9 Cllrs. Jim Codd & John Dwyer 
“We call on WCC’s Housing Section to provide emergency accommodation, where possible, 
as close to where the person is living and has their social support structures.” 

Cllr. J. Codd proposed an amendment to the motion to add the wording “and where 
appropriate” which was agreed by all. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Codd, seconded by Cllr. J. Dwyer, and agreed by all, the following 
amended motion was carried: 

“We call on WCC’s Housing Section to provide emergency accommodation, where possible 
and where appropriate, as close to where the person is living and has their social support 
structures.” 

Page 11 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.04.25 

On the proposal of Cllr. B. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and agreed by all, standing 
orders were suspended to allow the meeting to proceed beyond 5.30pm. 

Mr. M. Drea advised that he had received a motion which was submitted by Cllr. M. 
Sheehan and carried at the New Ross Municipal District meeting, which the Members of 
New Ross Municipal District wished to be put before the full Council as an urgent business 
motion.  

Mr. Drea informed the Members that in accordance with Standing Order no. 20 
“Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Standing Orders a motion may be 
proposed without notice for the purpose of dealing with urgent business related to a 
function of the local authority, subject to the requirement that not less than 18 members 
vote in favour.” On a show of hands, the Council resolved to allow the motion to be 
proposed without notice for the purpose of dealing with urgent business.  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Dwyer, and agreed by all, the 
following motion was carried: 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Integration to refrain from engaging IPAS 
Contracts in locations where there is a shortage of bed nights and the engagement would 
deprive the local community of essential services or that the signing of a Service Level 
Agreement would remove the one last facility, such as a hotel or community hall in the 
area.  
Furthermore, this Council calls for meaningful engagement and communications with 
locally elected representatives as part of the deliberation process. Upon passage, this 
motion is forwarded to the Oireachtas members for their public support.” 

21. 

Any Other Business 

There was no other business. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Bealtaine, 2025. 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 12 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
