County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 11 September, 2017 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

M. Byrne; 
P. Breen; 
T. Dempsey;   
A. Connick; 
W. Fitzharris;  
M. Farrell; 
R. Ireton; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
A. Kelly; 
B.A .Murphy,  
M. Murphy; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
J. Sullivan; 
F. Staples; 

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe,   
J. Fleming  
W. Kavanagh; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen; 
M. Sheehan;  

K. Codd-Nolan,   
K. Doyle, 
J. Hegarty,  
P. Kavanagh: 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien; 
O. Walsh; 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary; 

Apologies:   

Councillors 

Officials: 

J. O’Rourke, Oisín Ó Connell, M. Whelan,  
D. Wadding 
Mr. Pat Collins, County Secretary 

1. 

Presentation from Union of Students in Ireland 

Ms.  Michelle  Byrne,  USI  Vice  President  for  the  Southern  Region  and  Ms.  Lorna 
Fitzpatrick,  President  of  IT  Carlow  Students’  Union  attended  the  meeting  in 
deputation  and  presented  a  PowerPoint  presentation  to  the  meeting,  outlining  the 
case for a publically-funded 3rd-level education system in Ireland. 

Following  a  Question  and  Answer  session  to  which  all  Members  contributed,  the 
Cathaoirleach  and  Members  thanked  Ms.  Byrne  and  Ms.  Fitzpatrick  for  their 
professional and comprehensive presentation. The deputation then withdrew. 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  Mr. Martin Sinnott, father of Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
  Mr. Terry Redmond, former member of Gorey Town Commissioners 
  V. Rev Mathias Conon Glynn, brother of Jarlath Glynn, Executive Librarian 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

  Mr. Joe Forristal, father of Larry Forristal, Veterinary Officer 
  Mr. Dick Phelan, Former Telephone Receptionist at Wexford County Council 
  Ms. Joan O’Regan, Mother of Lena Regan, Cleaning Staff, WCC 
  Ms. Kathleen Maher, mother of John Maher, Senior Assistant Chief Fire Officer 
  Mr. Stephen Lynch, brother of Sam Lynch, Storeman 
  Ms. Sadie Whelan, sister of James Murphy, Credit Controller 
  Mr. Frank Sinnott, Editor Free Press, Wexford Town 
  Biddy (Bridget) Walshe, New Ross 

Congratulations 

Dean na Comhairleóirí comhghairdeas are na dhaoine liosta anseo: 

  All those involved in the organisation of the 2017 Kennedy Summer School 
  Ferns Heritage Group – recent highly successful “Norman Ireland” Conference  
  Roscommon County Council – Commerative event for Detective Garda John Morley 

and Garda Henry Byrne, killed in line of duty in 1980 

  St Martin’s GAA Club, recent winners of the U21 Hurling title and numerous Under-

Age successes 

  Athlete  Kevin  O’Mahony,  Piercestown, following  his  recent  success  in  the  national 

Community Games 100m finals in Athlone 

  Piercestown / Murrintown Rounders Team, winners at national Community Games 

Finals in Athlone  

  Mr. Michael Hennessy, Saltmills, member of the Irish Wheelchair Basketball Team 

who won bronze at recent European Championships 

  New Ross-based Cumas, following their selection as a Pride of Place finalist 
  Ms.  Sheila  Forsey,  on  the  forthcoming  publication  of  her  recent  book  “Mending 

Lace” 

2. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1  Ordinary Meeting of 10th July, 2017 

Proposed  by  Councillor  Anthony  Donohoe,  seconded  by  Councillor  Paddy 
Kavanagh, and agreed 

2.2  Matters Arising: 

2.2.1  Unfinished Estates 

In  response  to  a  query  from  Cllr.  Carthy,  Mr.  T.  Larkin,  DoS  advised 
the meeting that he would bring a report to a meeting of the Housing 
SPC to update the members on the current position.  

He added that where an unfinished estate had received funding from 
the  Council  to  carry  out  remedial  works,  and  a  subsequent  planning 
application  was  received  seeking  to  carry  out  further  development  in 
that  estate,  the  Council  would,  in  any  grant  of  permission,  seek  to 
apply a special levy to recover their investment.  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

2.2.2  Annual Service Delivery Plan – Progress Reports 

The  Cathaoirleach  reminded  the  meeting  that  where  future  quarterly 
Progress  Reports  on  implementation of  the Council’s Annual Service 
Delivery  Plan  are  presented  to  a  meeting  of the  Council, the  Council 
will  review  such  reports  at  the  following  monthly  meeting,  thus 
familiarize 
to 
allowing  sufficient  opportunity 
themselves with the contents of the Report. 

the  members 

to 

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8  
of the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1 

LAC1703 – the development comprises a new galvanised steel framed 
structure at the Men’s Shed complex in the Irishtown, New Ross.  

The Council considered the Report of the Chief Executive on the proposed 
development. 

Proposed by Councillor L. O’Brien, seconded by Councillor Sheehan and 
agreed. 

3.2   LAC1704 – the developed comprises a new Bring Centre to replace the 
older one in the village of Wellingtonbridge.  It will comprise of up to 10 
receptacles. 

The Council considered the Report of the Chief Executive on the proposed 
development. 

Proposed by Councillor L. O’Brien, seconded by Councillor Sheehan and 
agreed. 

3.3   LAC1705 – proposed development of 10 no. housing units with 
associated site works at Danescastle, Carrick on Bannow. 

The Council considered the Report of the Chief Executive on the proposed 
development. 

Proposed by Councillor L. O’Brien, seconded by Councillor Sheehan and 
agreed. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

4. 

3-Year Capital Programme 2017-2019 

The Council considered the Programme as circulated. 

Proposed by Councillor R. Ireton, seconded by Councillor P. Breen and agreed. 

The Head of Finance advised the Members that the 2018-2020 Capital Programme 
will be prepared and presented to Members early in 2018. 

5. 

Budget 2018 – Preparation Process 

The  Members  noted  and  agreed  the  following  dates  for  the  holding  of  various 
meetings during the 2018 Budget process, as recommended by the CPG. 

o  Cross Party Budget Strategy Meeting - Monday 18th September 10.00am 

o  Council Meeting to consider Variation of LPT - Thursday 28th September 

10.00am 

o  Municipal District Meetings to consider draft budgetary plan (GMA)  – as per 
Scheduled  October  Municipal  District  meetings    (New  Ross  MD  to  adjust 
their date to meet prescribed dates) 

o  Statutory 2018 Budget Meeting - Monday 27 November 10.00am 

It was agreed that those Members who attended the 2017 Budget  Strategy cross-
party  meeting  would  be  invited  to  attend  the  2018  Budget  Strategy  cross-party 
meeting. 

6. 

Sub-Committee of Wexford County Council to promote Third Level Education 
in County Wexford. 

The Cathaoirleach advised the meeting of the names of those Councillors who have 
been nominated to sit on the above committee.  

Committee to promote 3rd Level Education in County Wexford 

Nominating Body 

Councillor 

Party 

Enniscorthy MD 

Johnny Mythen 

Borough District of Wexford 

Jim Moore 

SF 

FG 

FF 

Pip Breen 

TBC 

George Lawlor 

LAB 

Gorey MD 

New Ross MD 

Labour Party 

Solidarity - People Before Profit 

Deirdre Wadding 

PBPA 

Non- Party 

Chairman 

TBC 

Non Party 

Paddy Kavanagh 

FG 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Council agreed the above nominations and noted that New Ross Town Council 
is to finalise it’s nominee while the non-party Members of Wexford County Council 
will meet among themselves to agree their nominee to the Committee. 

County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

7. 

Adoption of Annual Report 2015 

The  County  Secretary  presented  the  Draft  Annual  Report  for  consideration  and 
adoption. 

Proposed by Councillor Dempsey, seconded by Councillor Byrne, and agreed. 

The Members noted that the draft 2016 Annual Report is in preparation with a view 
to it being presented to the Council before the end of 2017. 

8. 

Protected Disclosures Act 2014 - Section 22 Report 

The Members noted the Report as circulated. 

9. 

Report of Corporate Policy Group – Meeting of Monday 4 September, 2017. 

Proposed by Councillor Carthy, seconded by Councilor Sheehan, and agreed 

10.  Chief Executive’s Report. 

The  Chief  Executive  presented  his  monthly  Management  Report,  prepared  under 
Section 136 of the LG Act 2001 in respect the months of July and August 2017. 

following  updates  were  provided  by 

The 
Management Team in response to queries from the Elected Members: 

the  respective  members  of 

the 

  Wexford Quays Regeneration Project 

Current grant aid towards the project applies to the section of the Quayside 
from the Crescent Quay to Trinity Wharf 

Efforts will be made to remediate the section from Crescent Quay to Wexford 
Bridge which is acknowledged as needing attention. 

A  draft  of  the  Quayside  Regeneration  Plan  has  been  received  from  the 
Council’s  consultants  and  will  be  presented  for  consideration  by  the 
Members at the next available meeting of Wexford Borough District. 

  Proposed sale of Council lands at Carricklawn  

Any proposed sale of these lands will be a matter for decision by the Elected 
Members under Section 183 of the LG Act 2001. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

  Tuskar Rock Tragedy – Commerative Event 

The  Council’s  Community  Department  offers  its  assistance  to  the  local 
community in their efforts to organise an appropriate commerative event 

  Planning Enforcement 

The Council’s Planning Department acknowledges there has been a marked 
an  increase  in  multi-unit  housing  development  applications  and  will  ensure 
that sufficient staff resources are deployed to this area to ensure  these new 
developments comply with appropriate standards of development. 

  Dog Fouling 

The Council will continue to allocate resources through it’s warden services 
to combat this problem, including the monitoring of public beaches. 

  Templeshannon Renewal Project 

A draft of the Templeshannon Regeneration Plan has been received from the 
Council’s  consultants  and  will  be  presented  for  consideration  at  the  next 
available meeting of the Members of Enniscorthy District. 

  Enniscorthy Traffic Management Plan 

An  initial  draft  will  be  presented  for  consideration  at  the  next  available 
meeting of the Members of Enniscorthy District. 

  Vinegar Hill Research Project 

The maintenance of the Vinegar Hill area will receive additional priority. 

The Research Project has uncovered very significant artifacts relating to the 
1798 Rebellion – the Members of Enniscorthy District will be kept updated in 
relation to this on-going and very exciting project. 

  Wind Farm Noise Report 

An Executive Summary will be provided to the Members.  

An Action Plan for implementation of the Report’s recommendations is being 
prepared and will be brought to the SPC for consideration. 

  Taking in Charge of Estates 

The statutory proposals to take almost 50 estates in charge will be placed on 
the agendas for the next meetings of the respective Municipal Districts 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

  County Council Housing Programme 

The  Council  will  hold  a  special  meeting  to  discuss  Wexford’s  Housing 
Programme, with a view to speeding up delivery of accommodation, reducing 
incidence  of  homelessness  and  reducing  the  number  of  people  in  need  of 
housing. 

  N80 Resurfacing 

The Council will continue to seek funding from TII to allow further sections of 
the N80 to be re-surfaced. 

  Town and Village Renewal Scheme 

No  decision  has  yet  been  notified  to  Wexford  County  Council  regarding 
recent applications under this Scheme. 

  Unauthorised Waste Collection facility in North Wexford 

The  Council  continues  to  pursue  legal  proceedings  in  respect  of  this 
unauthorised activity. 

  Duncannon Beach Water Quality 

The Council has sought funding for an innovative land management plan that 
will, in cooperation with local landowners, help improve water quality. 

  Fethard-on-Sea Sewerage Scheme 

Tender documentation is being prepared. 

11.  Conferences / Training 

The Members considered the list of conferences and training events as circulated. 

Proposed by Councillor M. Sheehan, seconded by Councillor M. Byrne and agreed. 

Suspension of Standing Orders 

It  being  5.30pm,  the  Council  considered  suspending  Standing  Orders  to  allow  the 
meeting to continue 

Proposed by Councillor G. Lawlor, seconded by Councillor M. Byrne and agreed. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

12.    Minutes of Meetings: 

The following Minutes were considered for adoption: 

12.1   Minutes of Joint Policing Committee held on 10.07.17 
12.2   New Ross Municipal District 14.06.17 
12.3   New Ross District Annual Meeting 28.06.17 
12.4   Special Meeting of New Ross District 28.06.17 
12.5   Gorey Municipal District 20.06.17 
12.6   Annual Meeting of Gorey Municipal District 20.06.17 
12.7   Borough District of Wexford 19.06.17 
12.8   Annual Meeting of the Borough District of Wexford 26.06.17 
12.9  Special Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 26.06.17 
12.10  Enniscorthy Municipal District 16.06.17 
12.11  Enniscorthy District Annual Meeting 19.06.17 

Proposed by Councillor M. Farrell, seconded by Councillor M. Sheehan and agreed. 

13.  Notices of Motion: 

13.1 

“That  this  Council  calls  on  Minister  Naughten  to  stop  these  new  waste 
management  proposals,  to  establish  a  national  regulator,  introduce  more 
measures  to  reduce,  reuse,  and  recycle  waste.  To  establish  substantive 
measures  to  protect  families  on  F.I.S.,  old  age  pensioners,  citizens  with 
medical  conditions,  and  those  on  social  welfare  payments  from  the 
impending  increases  that  will  come  about  because  of  these  new  waste 
management proposals”.    

Proposed  by  Councillor  J.  Mythen,  seconded  by  Councillor  A.  Kelly  and 
agreed. 

13.2  “I  move  that  this  Council  have  meaningful  discussions  with  the  OPW  in 
regards the suitability of the Wexford Garda Station (when vacant) to use for 
emergency housing”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  A.  Kelly,  seconded  by  Councillor  D.  Hynes  and 
agreed. 

13.3 

“That  Wexford  County  Council  resolves  to  strongly  oppose  any  proposal  to 
remove any powers from local government and expresses particular concern 
at reports that Government wishes to remove powers with regard to housing. 
Further,  this  Council  expresses  deep  concern  at  the  failure  of  the 
Department  of  Housing,  Planning  and  Local  Government  to  support  local 
authorities  in  providing  housing  and  shall  communicate  that  concern  in 
writing”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  M.  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  A.  Kelly  and 
agreed. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

13.4 

“In  order  to  facilitate  the  proper  development  of  Rosslare  Europort  and  to 
allow  the  port  to  realise  its  full  economic  potential,  I  move  that  the  Council 
calls on the Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport to establish Rosslare 
Europort  as  a  separate  and  autonomous  company  under  the  CIÉ  Group.  
This  would  ensure  that  all  profits  generated  in  Rosslare  Eurport  would  be 
retained 
the  future 
development of the port.  The board of directors of the new company should 
be representative of the various stakeholders.” 

the  new  company  and  reinvested 

locally  by 

in 

Proposed  by  Councillor  T.  Dempsey,  seconded  by  Councillor  P.  Kavanagh 
and agreed. 

13.5 

"This  Council  acknowledges  that  we  are  in  the  midst  of  housing  and 
homelessness  crisis,  and  over  the  coming  months  will  establish  a  point  of 
contact for housing emergencies on weekends" 

Proposed by Councillor Fionntáin Ó’Súilleabháin, seconded by Councillor A. 
Kelly.  

The  Members  agreed  to  defer  debate  and  decision  on  this  Motion  to  the 
upcoming Special “Housing” Meeting of Wexford County Council. 

The  following  Motions  were  deferred  to  the  next  Monthly  Meeting  of  Wexford 
County Council 

Cllr. D. Wadding: 

1(a) 

 “That  this  Council  calls  on  Government  to  immediately  scrap 
the failed Rebuilding Ireland programme, to be replaced by rent 
control, increased rent allowance , a large scale social building 
project  and  immediate  use  of  vacant  properties  as  emergency 
provision. 

1(b) 

In  acknowledgement  of  the  scale  of  the  crisis,  we  demand 
Government  calls  a  National  Emergency  status  with  regard  to 
Housing and Homelessness”. 

Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“This Council supports Social Justice Ireland call on Minister Eoghan 
Murphy  to   put  plans  in  place  for   than  90,000  social  homes  and 
apartments needed to be built in the next five years  and agrees that 
current  attempts  to  solve  the  unprecedented  problem  and  heart 
breaking problem have failed abysmally in light of recent deaths”.  

Cllr. P. Kavanagh: 

“That  Wexford  County  Council  implements  a  plan  to  deal  with  the 
problem  of  Japanese  Knotweed  and  to  educate  the  public  to  the 
dangers of this invasive species”. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Cllr. A. Kelly: 

County Council Meeting 11.09.17 

“I move that this Council call on the HSE and Minister Simon Harris to 
extend  and  adequately  staff  the  existing  mental  health  services  at 
to  emergency 
Summerhill  Wexford 
assessment”. 

facilitate  24/7  access 

to 

Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“That Wexford County Council develop a digital strategy that will work 
toward  this  County  being  to  the  fore  in  utilising  the  advantages  of 
technology and this Council leading in terms of the ability of citizens to 
interact digitally and to use open data. The Council shall also consider 
the appointment of a digital champion to lead this initiative”. 

Cllr. D. Wadding: 

“I call  on  this Council to  ban  the use of  Roundup  by  Council  staff on 
public land, grass verges etc”. 

Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“The  recent  announcement  to  take  over vacant houses  and  renovate 
these is to be welcomed as part of addressing the houses crisis but it 
can only be done if the finance is made available and the each vacant 
house  in  Wexford  ear  marked  by  the  Council  for  such  renovation  is 
matched by the finance, otherwise it is just more spin”.  

14.  Sealing of Documents 

The Members considered the list of documents for sealing as circulated. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  M.  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  K.  Codd-Nolan,  and 
agreed 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
