County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 8 April 2019  – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen 
A. Connick 
M. Farrell 
J. Hegarty 
Jim Moore 
J. Mythen 
O. Walsh 
R. Ireton 

M. Byrne 
T. Dempsey   
W. Fitzharris   
D. Hynes 
B.A .Murphy    
L. O’Brien 
J. Sullivan 
P. Kavanagh  

K. Codd-Nolan  
M. Doyle 
T. Forde 
L. McDonald 
M. Murphy 

G. Carthy 
A. Donohoe,   
J. Fleming  
G. Lawlor 
M. Roche 
F. Ó Súilleabháin  M. Sheehan   
J. O’Rourke   
M. Whelan 

T. Walsh 
W. Kavanagh 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Mr. T. Banville, A/Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. D. Minogue, Senior Executive Officer; 
Mr. Padraig O’Gorman, Senior Executive Officer. 

Apologies:   

Councillors:    
Officials: 

F. Staples 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Pat Collins, County Secretary 

Votes of Sympathy 

The Council extended its sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  Ms. Anne Shannon, Kilmore 
  Mr. Nick O’Brien, New Ross 
  Se Padraig Joyce, Clonroche 
  David Haslacher, Enniscorthy 
  Jason O’Leary, Wexford 
  James Dobbs, Enniscorthy, father of Billy Dobbs, Fire Services 
  Ms. Eileen Moore, mother of Caroline O’Mara, recently retired employee 
  John O’Connor, father of Jason O’Connor, Fire Services 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

Vóta Comhghairdeas 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Wexford  County  Council  –  on  the  occasion  of  the  120th  Anniversary  of  Local 

Government in Ireland 

  Kilmuckridge Drama Group – All Ireland Finalist 
  Kilrush Drama Group – All-Ireland Finalist 
  County Wexford Special Olympics Team 
  Martin Kehoe, Medal Winner – European Ploughing Championships 
  Dan Donnelly, Medal Winner – European Ploughing Championships 
  Lorna Fitzpatrick, Gorey, recently elected President, Union of Students of Ireland 
  Members  of Wexford  County  Council  Executive,  following  their  recent  success,  in 
cooperation  with  the  IDA,  in  attracting  GrandPad  to  set  up  it’s  European 
Headquarters in Gorey 

  Hartecast (Liz and Jack Harte) Wexford Enterprise Business Award 2019  
  Cllr.  Malcolm  Byrne,  on  being  selected  to  contest  the  upcoming  European 

Parliament Elections 

Other 

It was agreed that Wexford County Council will afford a Civic Reception to the following: 

Wexford Special Olympics 

in  acknowledgement  of  their  success  at  national 
and international level 

County Wexford Women’s  
Darts Team   

in acknowledgement of their repeated success at 
National level 

County Wexford Handball  
Team 

in acknowledgement of their success at 
international level 

Senior Hurling Referee James   in  acknowledgement  of 
Owens and his accompanying   All- Ireland level to the game of Hurling 
Umpires 

their  contribution  at 

Martin Kehoe / Dan Donnelly 

in  acknowledgement  of  their  recent  success  at 
European Ploughing Championships 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1   County Council Meeting - 11th March, 2019. 

Proposed by Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councillor P. Kavanagh and 
agreed. 

1.2   Special County Council Meeting - 11th March, 2019. 

Proposed by Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councillor P. Kavanagh and 
agreed. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

1.3   Matters Arising: 

On the proposal of Cllr. Forde, seconded by Cllr. Mythen, the Council agreed 
to  write  to  Minister Simon  Harris,  requesting  that he  immediately  abandon / 
reverse any plans to implement a ban on recruitment and overtime within the 
Health Service. 

2. 

Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 
2001: 

2.1  Proposed lease of a plot of land at Ashgrove, Fethard on Sea, Co. 
Wexford to Fethard Community Development Association 

Proposed by Cllr. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. Doyle and agreed 

2.2   Proposed disposal of property at Carricklawn, Wexford to Slaney Clinic 

Ltd, 23 Abbey Court, Georges Street, Wexford. 

Proposed by Cllr. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. Doyle and agreed 

2.3   Proposed lease of a plot of land to New Ross Search and Rescue CLG 

Proposed by Cllr. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. Doyle and agreed 

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as  amended) and Part 8, 
of the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1   LAC  1901-  Proposed  development  involves  the  construction  of  a  new  link 
road  traversing  parts  of  the  Town  Lands  of  Beak  and  Ballyteige  at  Kilmore 
Quay, linking the R739 regional road and the L3056 local primary road, and 
thus reducing the volume of traffic through the centre of the village of Kilmore 
Quay. 

Having  considered  the  proposed  development  and  the  Chief  Executive’s 
Report  in  relation  to  same  as  circulated,  the  Members  agreed  that  the 
development proceed as proposed. 
. 

3.2   LAC 1902 – Proposed construction of a new Fire Station at Hewitsland, New 

Ross, Co. Wexford. 

Having  considered  the  proposed  development  and  the  Chief  Executive’s 
Report  in  relation  to  same  as  circulated,  the  Members  agreed  that  the 
development proceed as proposed. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 

Draft Traveller Accommodation Programme 2019-2024. 

County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

Senior  Housing  Officer  Padraig  O’Gorman  delivered  a  PowerPoint  presentation  to 
the meeting, outlining the main provisions of the draft Programme. 

  As  at  December  2018,  744  traveller  families  were  resident  in  County 

Wexford 

  Of those 744 families, 99 families have sought social housing support 
  Of  those  99  families,  95  families  have  indicated  a  preference    for 
conventional social housing, while 4 families have requested accommodation 
within a Group Housing Scheme 

  Wexford County Council proposes to meet its obligations over the lifetime of 

the Programme by accommodating 20 families per year 

The  Members  welcomed  the  fact  that  Wexford  County  Council  exceeded  its 
accommodation  targets  as  set  out  in  the  Traveller  Accommodation  Programme 
2014-2018, 

During the debate, attention was drawn to the issue of anti-social behavior by some 
members  of  the  travelling  community,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  Drumgoold, 
Enniscorthy and Irishtown, New Ross. It was felt that the issue may be symptomatic 
of  wider  social  difficulties  within  the  Traveller  community  and  in  this  context  the 
Members agreed that the matter be referred to the Local Traveller Accommodation 
Consultative Committee for further consideration. 

On the proposal of Cllr. Ireton, seconded by Cllr. O’Rourke, the Members noted the 
draft Report.  

The draft Report will now enter the statutory public consultation process, following 
which  the  Report  and  any  submissions  thereon  will  return  to  the  Council  for 
consideration and final adoption. 

5. 

Road Works Programme 2019 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. Breen and agreed 

6. 

Draft County Wexford Tourism Strategy Project 2019-2023 

A/Director  of  Services  Tom  Banville  outlined  a  number  of  changes  to  the  Draft 
County Wexford Tourism Strategy Project 2019-2023, since it’s presentation to the 
March 2019 monthly meeting of the Council.  

The Members welcomed the proposed changes and suggested a number of further 
additions to the list of attractions as contained in the Strategy, including Vinegar Hill, 
the 9 Stones Cycling Route, the National 1798 Visitor Centre Enniscorthy.  

Attention was also drawn to the county’s beautiful beaches with Morriscastle Beach 
in North Wexford described as particularly noteworthy. 

On the proposal of Cllr. BA Murphy, seconded by Cllr. Byrne, the Members adopted 
the Strategy. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

7. 

2019 Annual Service Delivery Plan - Quarter 1 Update 

Director of Services Eddie Taaffe presented the Report, which outlined the progress 
made by the Council in achieving the targets and objectives set out in the Plan. 

The  Director  and  Chief  Executive  responded  to  queries  from  the  Members 
regarding  progress  in  the  delivery  of  a  number  of  capital  projects,  including 
Advance Technology Building New Ross and Enterprise Centre New Ross 

The  Members noted  that  plans  to  build  a  new  Ross  Fire  Station  in  New  Ross  are 
well  advanced.  It  was  noted  that  a  cluster  of  prominent  buildings  in  New  Ross  - 
including current Fire Station site - will become vacant shortly and the Council is to 
examine their potential for re-use. 

At this juncture, Councillors M. Whelan and J. O’Rourke left the meeting 

8.  

Local Election Update 

D.  Minogue  SEO  updated  the  Members  in  relation  to  arrangements  for  the  2019 
Local  Elections.  He  undertook  to  advise  the  Members  by  email  in  relation  to  the 
latest date for acceptance of applications for a postal vote 

E. Taaffe DoS advised the Members that due to legislative provisions, applications 
for entry onto the Supplementary Register cannot be made in bulk.  

Completed  applications  will  be  accepted  individually  at  each  of  the  Council’s 
Municipal  District  Offices  and  can  also  be  posted  /  delivered  to  County  Hall 
Wexford. 

At this juncture, Councillor Tony Walsh left the meeting 

9.   Minutes of Meeting of Corporate Policy Group – Monday 1 April, 2019 

Proposed by Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councilor Hegarty and agreed 

10.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The  Members  raised  a  number  of  issues  which  were  responded  to  by  the  Chief 
Executive and Management Team – among these issues were the following: 

  Gorey Town Park – tender costs 
  Extension of Open Libraries project across the county’s library network 
  Public realm improvements in local authority estate locations 
  Derelict  buildings  in  the  Rosslare  Harbour  area  and  opportunity  to  create  a 

Village Centre Plan to revitalise the area 

  New Ross Port 
  Ballyminaun Water Treatment Plant 
  Wexford Arts Centre 
  County Development Plan review 
  Site of former Wexford Garda Station 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

11. 

List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training 

11.1  Training: 

11.1.1 

11.1.2 

11.1.3 

21 March AILG Training Module 2 – Forecasting Services and 
Local Authorities – Park Hotel, Dungarvan, Co. Waterford – Fe 
€55. 

12/14 April Training Seminar – Changing Trends & Approaches 
to  Drug  and  Alcohol  Abuse  –  Casey’s  Hotel,  Baltimore,  West 
Cork – Fee €145. 

3/5  May  Training  Seminar  –  Health  &  Safety  for  your  Council, 
The  Workplace  and  Your  Constituents  –  Lord  Bagenal  Hotel, 
Leighlinbridge, Carlow – Fee €145. 

11.2  Conferences: 

11.2.1 

11.2.2 

11.2.3 

4/5 April Annual Planning Conference 2019 – Landmark Hotel, 
Leitrim – Fee €360. 

10  April  Cross  Border  Tourism  Conference  2019  –  Four 
Seasons Hotel, Carlingford, Co. Louth – Fee €30. 

12/14  April  Ireland  and  Plastic  Waste  –  Four  Seasons  Hotel, 
Carlingford, Co. Louth – Fee €100.  

11.3  Foreign Travel 

The  Members  noted  that  the  Mayor  of Wexford  and  accompanying  officials 
have been invited to attend the Calvacade de Fleurus on 21st and 22nd April 
2019.  

On the proposal of Cllr. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. Byrne, the Members approved 
all  of  the  above  events  for  attendance  in  accordance  with  S.142(5)  of  the  Local 
Government Act 2001. 

12.  Minutes of Meetings 

12.1   Borough District of Wexford 18.02.19 

12.2   Gorey Municipal District 19.02.19 

12.3   Enniscorthy Municipal District 18.02.19 

12.4   New Ross Municipal District 13.02.19 

Proposed by Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councillor Mary Farrell and agreed 

13.  Sealing of Documents 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed by Councillor Byrne, seconded by Councillor Sheehan and agreed. 

County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

14.  Correspondence and Communications 

14.1  Correspondence  from  the  Private  Secretary  to  the  Minister  for  Housing 

regarding the Rebuilding Ireland Home Loan 

Noted 

14.2  Correspondence 

from  Dr.  Patricia  Mulcahy,  President, 

Institute  of 

Technology Carlow 

Cllr. Byrne absented himself from the meeting during discussion on this item 

The Members expressed disappointment as Dr. Mulcahy’s inability to attend 
a meeting of the Council on the dates offered.  

On the proposal of Cllr. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. Kavanagh, the Members 
agreed to write to Dr. Mulcahy, inviting her to attend a meeting of the Council 
on a date of her choosing. 

It was further agreed to invite Mr. John Moore, Chairman Carlow Institute of 
Technology Governing Body, to also attend. 

14.3  Acknowledgement  from  the  Minister  for  Health  concerning  solidarity  and 

support to nurses and midwives 

Noted 

14.4  Acknowledgement from Minister of State for Mental Health and Older People 

regarding report of the Mental Health Sub-Committee 

Noted 

It being past the hour of 5.30pm, the Members considered suspending Standing Orders for 
a period of 30 minutes to allow a number of Notices of Motion to be considered. 

Proposed by Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councillor Byrne and agreed. 

15.   Notices of Motion 

15.1   Cllr. Malcolm Byrne: 

“That Wexford County Council condemns the outrageous cost overruns of 
the planned National Children’s Hospital and calls for those responsible to be 
held to account.” 

Proposed by Cllr. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. Sheehan and agreed 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

      15.2  

Cllr. Michael Sheehan: 

“That  this  Council  supports  our  GPs  campaign  for  better  terms  and 
conditions with the undoing of FEMPI legislation and to calls on the Minister 
for  Health  to  engage  with  the  stakeholders  to  ensure  that  practices  remain 
open,  new  doctors  are  recruited  to  ensure  that  practices  remain  viable  and 
that patients do not have to travel long distances for GP appointments”. 

Proposed by Cllr. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. Farrell and agreed 

15.3  

Cllr. Tom Forde: 

"I propose that this Council write separately to RTE, Eurovision Song Contest 
Ireland  and  the  Irish  performers,  calling  on  all  participants  not  to  play  any 
part in the 2019 Eurovision Song Contest, due to be held in Israel, until Israel 
recognises equal rights for Palestinians and observers international law." 

Proposed by Cllr. Forde, seconded by Cllr. Mythen and defeated, on a show 
of hands with 4 voting For the Motion and 7 voting Against 

15.4  

Cllr. David Hynes: 

“That this Council considers in view of the many housing applicants, that the 
Council  is  not  in  a  position  to  provide  a  social  house  for  at  present,  would 
therefore  develop  a  more  direct  link  with  letting  agencies  to  find  out  what 
accommodations are available to rent within the HAP income guidelines and 
as far as possible which landlords will accept HAP. As many applicants are 
under severe pressure and are often stressed trying to find a suitable place 
to rent”. 

Deferred in the absence of Cllr. Hynes 

15.5  

Cllr. Michael Sheehan: 

“That  this Council  calls  on  the  Minister for Social  protection  to abandon  the 
costly piecemeal practice to reviewing all those affected by the 2012 pension 
rules  changes  and  to  reinstate  the  old  criteria  of  the  pre-change  State 
pension while developing a mechanism to backdate the full arrears to those 
pensioners affected” 

Proposed by Cllr. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. BA Murphy and agreed 

15.6  

Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin: 

"This Council acknowledges the large number of homeowners in County 
Wexford who are currently experiencing mortgage distress. It welcomes the 
passing of the first stage of the ‘No Consent, No Sale" legislation in Leinster 
House which prevents banks selling home mortgages to vulture funds 
without the consent of the borrower/home-owner. This council is calling on all 

8 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

T.D.s to facilitate the speedy passage of the bill through the remaining 
legislative stages". 

Proposed by Cllr. Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. Roche 

A Roll-Call vote ensured – the following are the results - with the Motion 
carried on a vote of 12 voting For the Motion and 7 voting Against 

Councillor 

For 

Against  Absent  Abstain 

BREEN 

BYRNE 

CARTHY 

PIP 

MALCOLM 

GER 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

CONNICK 

DEMPSEY 

ANTHONY 

TONY 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

DOYLE 

DOYLE 

FARRELL 

FITZHARRIS 

FLEMING 

FORDE 

HEGARTY 

HYNES 

IRETON 

KAVANAGH 

KAVANAGH 

LAWLOR 

KEITH 

MARIE 

MARY 

WILLIE 

JOHN 

TOM 

JOHN 

DAVID 

ROBERT 

PADDY 

WILLIE 

GEORGE 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

MOORE 

MURPHY 

MURPHY 

MYTHEN 

O'BRIEN 

O'ROURKE 

JIM 
BARBARA-
ANNE 

MARTIN 

JOHNNY 

LARRY 

JOHN 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

ROCHE 

SHEEHAN 

STAPLES 

SULLIVAN 

WALSH 

WALSH 

WHELAN 

MICK 

MICHAEL 

FRANK 

JOE 

ANTHONY 

OLIVER 

MICHAEL 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

12 

9 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

7 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

14 

0 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

15.7  

Cllr. David Hynes: 

“That this Council calls on the government to reverse the decision by 
revenue to impose VAT at 23% on Food supplements from health stores”. 

Deferred in the absence of Cllr. Hynes 

15.8  

Cllr. John Fleming 

“That Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing Planning and 
local Government Mr. Eoghan Murphy to allow pensioners who have resided 
in a County Council property for many years to purchase that property 
regardless of income under the tenant purchase scheme”. 

Proposed by Cllr. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. Sheehan and agreed 

15.9  

Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“Noting 

(i)  

(ii)  

the seriously damaging effects on health and the environment of the 
continued burning of smoky fuels; 

the motion carried by this Council in March, 2015 seeking to prohibit 
the burning of smoky coals in the County; 

(iii)  

the announcement in October, 2015 by then Minister, Alan Kelly, of 
the Government's intention to proceed with a nationwide ban; 

(iv) 

the further motion carried by this Council in March, 2017, expressing 
concern at the failure of Government to proceed with this ban and the 
continued failure since; 

(v) 

the call in that motion in March 2017 for the introduction of this ban 
within six months, 

(vi)  

the continued evidence of the damage caused by the burning of 
smoky fuels being provided by the Council's own assessments, 

This Council now resolves, 

(vii) 

to introduce and enforce a Countywide ban on the sale and use of 
smoky fuels to take effect on 1st May, 2019. 

(viii)  

to provide an information campaign to consumers on the dangers of 
poor air quality and on this ban. 

Proposed by Cllr. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. Ireton and agreed 

10 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

DoS John Carley pointed out that notwithstanding the passing of this Motion, 
it may not be possible to bring the Motion into effect as it would appear to be 
beyond the statutory remit of the Council to do so 

It was agreed that the Council would seek legal advice on the matter and 
advise the Members of the resulting findings. 

15.10   Cllr. David Hynes 

“This Council calls on the relevant Minister or administrators of the HAP 
scheme to cover the 4 weeks rent in advance that some landlords are 
demanding from new tenants along with the deposit”. 

Deferred in the absence of Cllr. Hynes 

15.11   Cllr. Ger Carthy 

“That Wexford County Council allow Wexford Fire Service participation in the 
Fire/co-responder Scheme with the National Ambulance Service (NAS)”. 

Cllr. Carthy withdrew the Motion 

15.12   Cllr. Johnny Mythen 

“That this Council calls on the Minister of Transport, to double the fixed 
charge notice, where illegal parking in a disabled bay is detected and to 
consider using a penalty points system in such cases”. 

Proposed by Cllr. Mythen, seconded by Cllr. Farrell and agreed 

15.13   Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“That Wexford County Council calls for changes to the Housing Aid for Older 
People Grant to allow applications from people who ordinarily meet the 
criteria but who are also caring for a resident dependent or family member 
under the age of 66, who are in receipt of a long term disability payment or 
someone incapable of living alone requiring full time care of the applicant”. 

Proposed by Cllr. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. Farrell and agreed 

15.14   Cllr. Fionntán ÓSúilleabháin 

"That this Council will do a review this Spring on the widespread felling of 
mature, healthy trees which is taking place across County Wexford. That we 
will seek to implement measures that will preserve this important part of our 
natural heritage and landscape". 

Proposed by Cllr Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. Roche. 

11 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

Following debate, the Motion was agreed on the understanding that: 

(i) 

(ii) 

a widespread felling of mature, healthy trees by Wexford County 
Council was not taking place 

Any such review would be conducted on a Municipal District by 
Municipal District basis to allow for local needs to be ascertained and 
met  

It being past the hour of 6pm, the Cathaoirleach closed the meeting, with the following 
Notices of Motion deferred to the next available meeting 

15.15   Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“That Wexford County Council amend our County Development Plan to 
permit the construction of log cabins or other structures for housing for a 
defined period and that the appropriate amendment and regulations be 
presented at the April meeting of the Council”. 

15.16   Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“That Wexford County Council Housing section will review it’s transfer policy 
of current tenants and consider accepting transfer applications on the 
grounds of unresolved antisocial behavior as legitimate reasons for 
requesting a move”. 

15.17   Cllr. Fionntán ÓSúilleabháin 

"In the event of a no-deal Brexit, Wexford County Council will back the 
growing calls for an All-Ireland Border Poll, as enshrined under the terms of 
the Good Friday Agreement". 

16.1  

Cllrs: George Lawlor; Malcolm Byrne; John Hegarty 
“That Wexford County Council, in view of the damage that spiraling 
insurance costs are causing to community groups, voluntary organisations, 
charities and small business, calls on the Government to accelerate its 
insurance reform programme.  In particular, Wexford County Council calls on 
the Government to urgently recalibrate the Book of Quantum to reflect 
international norms, immediately establish a distinct Insurance Fraud Unit 
within an Garda Síochána and quantify the benefits to policyholders of the 
reforms currently being implemented.”  

16.2  

Cllr. Tony Dempsey 

“Due to the loss of jobs and the probability of further job losses in the Leisure 
and Play-activity centres in Wexford, that representatives of Wexford Co Co 
and the Leisure/Play activity centres seek an immediate Meeting with 
Minister Darcy. 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.19 

The purpose of this Meeting 

1. To discuss with Minister Darcy the problems faced by the Leisure/Play 
activity industry resulting from cost of Insurance and unavailability of 
Insurance. 

2. To ask Minister Darcy to arrange a Meeting with Minister Charles 
Flanagan with same reps to discuss their concerns re current legislation and 
impact of same on the Industry”. 

16.3  

Cllr. John Fleming 

“That Wexford County Council calls on the minister for employment affairs 
and social protection not to link pensions to an inflation index .  A lot of 
County Wexford pensioners who receive the state pension struggle at or 
below the poverty line and these measures if introduced would lock these 
pensioners in to poverty”. 

16.4  

Cllr. John Fleming 

“That Wexford County Council: 

  calls on the Minister to amend current legislation in order to increase the minimum 

litter fine to €500 

  brings in a “name and shame” policy in relation to detected litter offences”. 

16.5  

Cllr. Pip Breen 

“That Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Health Simon Harris 
and the HSE to fast track the provision of a second cat lab for Waterford 
University Hospital and stop using outdated figures and discredited reports to 
deprive the people of Southeastern region of this badly needed second cat 
lab”. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de                 

  , 2019. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
