County Council Meeting 16.01.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 16th January, 2017 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. P. Kavanagh, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
P. Breen;  
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
R. Ireton; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen; 
F. Staples; 
J. Sullivan; 

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
W. Fitzharris;  
W. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 
D. Wadding;   

G. Carthy;  
A. Donohoe,   
J. Fleming  
A. Kelly;  
BA Murphy,    
O. O’Connell; 

K. Codd-Nolan,   
K. Doyle, 
J. Hegarty,  
G. Lawlor, 
M. Murphy; 
J. O’Rourke;   
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
M. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary; 
Mr. G. Mackey, Administrative Officer. 

Apologies:   

Councillor D. Hynes 

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed the Members and wished them a Happy New Year 
and looked forward to working with them in 2017.  The Members welcomed the Cathaoirleach 
back after his recent illness. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 12th December, 2016. 

On  the proposal of  Councillor M.  Byrne,  seconded by  Councillor J.  Moore and  agreed  by  all, 
the Council approved the minutes of the County Council Meeting held on 12th December, 2016.   

1.2 Joint Policing Committee Meeting – 20th December, 2016. 

On the proposal of Councillor A. Kelly, seconded by Councillor P. Breen and agreed by all, the 
Council approved the minutes of the Joint Policing Committee Meeting held on 20th December, 
2016.   

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3 Joint Policing Committee Meeting – 5th September, 2016, as amended. 

On the proposal of Councillor J. Sullivan, seconded by Councillor M. Sheehan and agreed by 
all,  the  Council  approved  the  minutes  of  the  Joint  Policing  Committee  Meeting  held  on  5th 
September, 2016, as amended.   

County Council Meeting 16.01.17 

Congratulations 

The Members expressed their congratulations to the following: 

  Appointment  of  Dr.  Patricia  Mulcahy  as  the  President  of  Carlow  Institute  Technology 
and  the  appointment  of  Professor  Willie  Donnelly  as  President  of  Waterford  Institute 
Technology 

  Comhltas Ceoltoiri Eireann for their winter Ceili Mor which was took place recently 
  The Rasper Players in Gorey who are representing Ireland in the World Drama Festival 

in Monaco  

  Wexford Town for attaining the Purple Flag 
  David White who won the kick boxing competition 
  Wexford General Hospital Management and Staff for their improvements in dealing with 

patients on trolleys over the Christmas period 

  The appointment of Redmond O’Toole as Musician in Residence in the National Opera 

House. 

  LAMA Awards for New Ross Library and Wexford Marine Watch 
  Hook Heritage and Lighthouse for being placed in the Top 10 attractions in Ireland in a 

recent survey. 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their votes of sympathy to the following: 

  The family of Betty Doyle, mother of Siobhan Doyle, Planning Department 
  The family of Andrew Poole, brother of Leonard Poole, Assistant Resident Engineer, 

Water Services 

  The family of Mary Moore, mother of Terry Moore, Outdoor Staff, Gorey and 

Enniscorthy 

  The family of John Doran, father of Grainne Doran, Archivist 
  The family of Mary Quigley, mother of Bernie Quigley, Enniscorthy District Offices 
  The family of Ned Finn, father of Angela Finn, IT Department 
  The family of Maurice Sinnott and his mother Mrs. Marie Sinnott 
  The family of Padge Berry who are involved in horse racing 
  The family of Anthony Cronin, member of Aosdana 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 16.01.17 

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Disposal of Interest in Land at Stokestown, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Councillor A. Connick seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Members 
agreed to the proposed disposal of interest in land at Stokestown, New Ross, Co. Wexford 
in accordance with the notice circulated.  

3.  Chief Executives Report on the Draft Gorey Local Area Plan 2017-2023: 

The Members noted the Chief Executives Report as circulated to the meeting. 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, made a presentation to the meeting and he 
recommended that the Council approve the report as recommended by Gorey Municipal 
District.  He advised that the plan would now go to public consultation and then come back 
to the Council for further consideration. 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, also advised the meeting that the County Development 
Plan process will commence in February 2017.  Initially a public advertisement will be 
placed in the local newspaper over the next few weeks calling for submissions.  This 
consultation is the first phase of the Plan.  The Planners will be meeting with each of the 
four District Committees over the coming months and the County Development Plan 
process will take place over the next two years. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty the Draft Gorey Local Area 
Plan 2017-2023 was agreed by all. 

4.  2015 Final Accounts (Audited) and Statutory Audit Report: 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance, presented the Final Accounts and the Statutory Audit 
Report for 2015 which had been circulated to the Members.  She advised the Members of a 
number of highlights in the documents, in particular, the improvement in the major revenue 
collection areas, the transfer of business to Irish Water, development levies and unfunded 
capital balances. 

The Members raised a number of issues with regard to the documents presented which 
were answered by the Head of Finance.  She clarified in particular that Planning 
Development Levies are not written off; they may have to be removed if a development 
doesn’t go ahead but will continue in place otherwise. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the 2015 Final 
Accounts (Audited) and Statutory Audit Report were agreed by all. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 16.01.17 

5.  Nomination of Member of Wexford County Council to the board of the Energy 

Agency: 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, outlined the purpose of the Energy Agency and the 
present composition of the board which now requires the appointment of a Member of 
Wexford County Council to the Board. 

Cllr. O. Walsh was proposed by Cllr. F. Staples and seconded by Cllr. J. Moore. 

Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin was proposed by Cllr. O. O’Connell and seconded by Cllr. A. Kelly. 

Following a vote Cllr. O. Walsh was declared elected to the board of the Energy Agency. 

6.  Submission by Wexford County Council to the Public Consultation on the Rail 

Review 2016 Report: 

The draft report which was circulated to the Members was presented by Mr. T. Larkin, 
Director of Services. 

The Director set out the main arguments for retention of the Dublin to Rosslare Europort 
south of Gorey and made a number of recommendations which are set out in the Executive 
Summary.  A wide ranging discussion took place in which the following items were 
discussed 

  The transfer of service at Bray 
  The re-introduction of the Rosslare to Waterford line 
  The development of Rosslare Port 
  Linking of the rail schedule with the ferry times 
  The privatisation of the ferry port 
  The cost of the rail service 
  Disability aspects of the current rail service 
  The moving back of the fast track to Enniscorthy to encourage extra passengers 
  The pricing travel for tourists 
  Environment aspect 
  Freight rail options 

The Chief Executive advised that the Council submission sought more frequent trains and 
better services.  He recognised that there are physical constraints for the trains and that the 
D.A.R.T. service is the only fully profitable service in Iarnrod Eireann.   

The report as presented, with amendments suggested by the meeting regarding access 
issues and quality of service, was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. A. 
Donohoe and agreed by all. 

7.  Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group was noted.  

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 16.01.17 

8.  Chief Executive’s Report: 

The Chief Executive’s Report was circulated to the meeting.  Questions raised by 
Councillors present were answered by Council Officials.  The issues raised included the 
following: 

  Progress reports on motions agreed by the Council 
  Update on Fethard on Sea Sewerage Scheme 
  LEO Plan  
  Rates Initiative 
  Houses offered to Wexford County Council by NAMA 
  Bonds on Housing Schemes 
  Monthly Reports on Greenways 
  Planning at Wexford Retail Park 
  REDZ funding 
  Training for tendering 
  Updated staff details following recent transfers 
  Road Improvements 
  Circulation of Energy Efficiency Conference brochure 

Director Tony Larkin then presented a report outlining the extension of the Vacant Property 
Grant Initiative Scheme which had been previously considered by the Corporate Policy Group. 

The report, as presented, was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and 
agreed by all. 

Director John Carley then presented the Traveller Accommodation Programme 2014-2018, 
which had previously been considered by each of the Municipal Districts.  

The Programme, as presented, was proposed by Cllr. D. Wadding, seconded by Cllr. K. Doyle 
and agreed by all. 

9.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, the Members noted and 
approved the List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training as circulated to the meeting. 

10. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. B. A. Murphy and agreed by all the 
Members present the above minutes were noted and approved. 

10.1 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 09.11.16 
10.2 Gorey Municipal District 15.12.16 
10.3Borough District of Wexford 21.11.16 
10.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District 21.11.16 
10.5 Special Enniscorthy Municipal District 01.12.16 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Notices of Motion: 

11.1 Cllr. J. O’Rourke: 

County Council Meeting 16.01.17 

“I call on Wexford County Council to write to minister of education Richard Bruton and ask 
for a review of the syllabus in project maths at junior and leaving certificate at all levels”. 

This motion was withdrawn. 

11.2 Cllr. J. Hegarty and Cllr. F. Staples: 

"We welcome the recently granted planning permission for a dialysis facility in Co Wexford 
and we call on this Council to now do all within it power to encourage the HSE to get a fully 
functioning dialysis unit up and running within the county as soon as possible." 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty and Cllr. F. Staples, seconded by Cllr. G. 
Lawlor and agreed by all. 

11.3 Cllr. F. Staples: 

“I call on this Council and all its Members to lobby the Department of the Environment and 
the Department of Agriculture to reduce the numbers of wild deer in County Wexford 
because of the effect it can have on TB on our farms and more importantly before we have 
a fatality on our roads”.  

This motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Staples, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan.  A vote 
was taken and the motion was carried. 

11.4 Cllr. D. Wadding: 

“At the request of the ISPCA and in support of their campaign, I call on this Council to ban 
the use of Council land for all Wild Animal circuses”. 

This motion was withdrawn as it was agreed that it had been previously agreed by the 
Council. 

11.5 Cllr. D. Wadding: 

“This Council supports the call for Mandatory inquests in the case of maternal death and 
calls on the Minister to take action to ensure this”. 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Wadding seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by 
all. 

An emergency motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Mythen and seconded by Cllr. F. Staples.  
The emergency motion was allowed in accordance with Article 20 of the Standing Orders 
and agreed by all. 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Health, Mr. Simon Harris, to give a commitment 
to ring fence the money received from the sale of St. Senan’s Mental Hospital for the sole 
pur pose of restoring a 24/7 Acute Mental Health Service in County Wexford”. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 16.01.17 

12. Sealing of Documents: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Members noted and 
approved the sealing of documents as submitted to the meeting. 

13. Correspondence and Communications: 

The Members noted the following correspondence:  

  Correspondence from Department of Social Protection in relation to the State pension 

(contributory) reform measures 

  Acknowledgement from Simon Harris, TD, Minister for Health concerning the 

C.A.M.H.S. posts in Wexford. 

  Acknowledgement from Chris Smith, Private Secretary to Minister Ross regarding 

expansion of the M11/M50 

The non response by Government Departments in terms of requests for meetings with 
Ministers and replies to queries raised by Wexford County Council were noted by the meeting. 
It was agreed that Council delegates would raise these matters with LAMA and AILG. 

14. Any Other Business:   

  Discussion took place about the lack of an emergency towing vessel to deal with marine 

emergencies.  

  The misuse of Disabled Bays outside the County Council buildings. 

  The Co. Secretary reminded members of their obligations to submit Ethics Declarations 
by 28th February 2017 and Disclosure of Political Donations by 31st January 2017. 

  First meeting of the Junior Council will take place in the Council Chamber at 4.30 P.M. 

on Monday 23rd January 2017. 

  Wexford County Council Just 1 Life Invitation – 26th January, 2017. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 16.01.17 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
