County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council held on Monday 13th March, 2023 
in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance 

In the Chair: Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Barden 
Bell 

Bolger 

Pat  
Maura 
(online) 
Andrew  

Breen  

Pip 

Forde  

Donohoe 
Farrell 

Anthony 
Mary 

McDonald 
Moore 

Lisa  
Jim 

Fleming 

John 
(online) 
Tom 

Murphy 

O’Rourke 

Barbara-
Anne 
John 
(online) 

Browne 

Aidan  

Hegarty  

John  

O’Súilleabháin  Fionntáin 

Cathal 
Ger 
Jim 
Kathleen 

Anthony  
(online) 
Diarmuid 
(online) 

Byrne 
Carthy 
Codd 
Codd-
Nolan 
Connick 

Devereux 

Officials: 

Hynes 
David 
Kavanagh  Willie 
Kelly 
Kenny 

Leonard 
Donal 

Owens 
Sheehan 
Staples 
Sullivan 

Jackser  
Michael 
Frank  
Joe 

Laffan 

Garry 

Walsh 

Oliver 

Lawlor  

George 

Whelan 

Michael 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. E.  Hore, Director of Service  
Ms. A.  O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. E. Hore, Director of Service 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Service 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Service 
Ms. S. Casey, A/Director of Service 
Ms. S. Doran , A/ County Secretary  

Apologies: 
Cllr. B. Murphy 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of John Thorpe, former employee of Wexford County Council, father of Jim 

Thorpe and father-in-law of Marie Thorpe, former employee of Wexford County Council. 

1. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

•  The family of Johnny Cloney, former employee of Wexford County Council (New Ross 

Roads Department) 

•  The family of Paula Carton, sister of Niamh Lennon, Planning Department. 

1. 

Confirmation  of Minutes: 

1.1  County Council Meeting 13th February, 2023 

On the Proposal of Cllr B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr O. Walsh. the Minutes of the County Council 
Meeting of 13.02.2023 were adopted by the Council, 

1.2 Matters Arising 

Cllr B.A. Murphy noted that she had previously requested figures on fire service personnel numbers 
which she had received shortly before the meeting and asked that they be circulated to all Elected 
Members.  Director  of  Service  Carolyne  Godkin  confirmed  she  would  arrange  circulation  as 
requested. 

Cllr T. Forde raised the issue of Housing Supports for fire service personnel. 

Fire at Wexford General Hospital 

The Cathaoirleach made a statement on the fire at Wexford General Hospital on the 1st of March 
2023 and the tremendous effort put in by all agencies involved in the evacuation of the hospital and 
in particular to commend the fire service personnel involved in fighting the fire. 

All Members praised the heroic actions of the fire service personnel and agreed that the Fire Service 
should not be taken for granted. 

The Elected Members  proceeded to offer  heartfelt thanks to the emergency services particularly 
the  Fire  Service,  the  Ambulance  Service,  Civil  Defense,  An  Garda  Siochana,  Staff  of  Wexford 
General Hospital, HSE, and Wexford County Council. 

The Elected members highlighted how much the hospital meant to the Community, the County, and 
the South-East Region. 

All Members agreed that the training that goes into Major Emergency Planning paid off and that the 
calm and professional manner of all involved assisting with the emergency was commendable. 

The importance of getting the hospital back up and running without delay was highlighted as well as 
the much-needed addition of the 96-bed unit for Wexford General Hospital.   

Motion for Purpose of Dealing with Urgent Business 
20. Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Standing orders a motion may be proposed 
without the notice for the purpose of dealing with urgent business related to a function of the local 
authority, subject to the requirement that not less than 18 members vote in favour. 

The proposed motion being submitted by the CPG is as follows; 

2. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

“Members of Wexford County Council call on the Minister Stephen Donnelly to exercise the 
powers conferred on him by Section 181 (2)(a) of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 
(as amended), to expediate the reconstruction, erection of temporary modular buildings as 
required and the construction of the promised 96 bed unit on the grounds of Wexford 
General Hospital.” 
The Elected Members voiced their full support for the motion. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and carried. 

Fleagh Cheoil na hÉireann 2024. 

The Cathaoirleach G. Lawlor gave a brief statement on Wexford winning the bid to host the 
Fleadh Cheoil in 2024. He congratulated the bid team, our business and community partners in 
Wexford and beyond, who have supported our efforts in securing this event for Wexford. 

The Elected Members were each enthusiastic in their praise for all involved in helping get the bid 
across the line; Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive, Mr Paddy Berry, President of Craobh Local 
Garman, Paudie Berry, Ms. C. Godkin, Mr. N. McGuigan, Barbara Walsh, Chairperson of Craobh 
Loch Garman Comhaltas amongst others. 

Mr T. Enright, Chief Executive thanked the Cathaoirleach and the bid team and said it was the 
fruition of several years of hard work. He gave thanks to Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Service for all 
the effort put in and also former Director of Service Mr. J. Carley, Comhaltas and Mr. Paddy Berry 
for his influence and assistance. Mr. Enright went on to give particular thanks to the Elected 
Members, who voted unanimously to provide budgetary support from the Council towards this 
event which will generate €50m in the local economy each year. The event will have a huge 
legacy in terms of repeat visitors to the County, an increase in Irish music and culture.  

Those present fondly remembered former Councillor Leo Carthy who would have been beyond 
proud to see the event come to Wexford. 

2.  Local Authority Home Loan (LAHL) 

(a) 2023 Allocation and Borrowing Requirement 
(b) Information note of changes to the LAHL Scheme. 

Ms. A.O’ Neill, Head of Finance and ICT gave details on the Rebuilding Ireland Home Loan and 
Local Authority Home Loan borrowing requirement. 

In accordance with Section 106 of the Local Government Act 2001, approval of the Council was 
sought to the borrowing of €8,440,000 to fund the 2023 Rebuilding Ireland Home Loan and Local 
Authority Home Loan Scheme. Approval was also sought for borrowing of €1,688,000 for the 
2024 as outlined in memo circulated. 

Ms. O’Neill answered questions from the Elected Members. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carty, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the Council resolved to approve 
borrowing to meet requirement. 

3. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

3.  Housing Allocation Scheme 2023 

Revised Housing Allocation Scheme 2023, made in accordance with Section 22 of the 
Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2009 and the Social Housing Allocation 
Regulations 2011 (S.I. NO.198 OF 2011).  
On the proposal of Cllr. C. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd- Nolan, the Council resolved to 
approve the motion to suspend Standing Orders to allow discussion of the Revised Housing 
Allocation Scheme 2023. 

The Housing Allocation Scheme 2023 (the Scheme) was approved by the Elected Members at the 
November meeting of the Council. At the January 2023 meeting of the Council, the Elected 
Members requested that the Housing SPC would further review the Scheme. 

Following consideration by the SPC, the Scheme was submitted to the Department whereby a 
number of changes were requested.  

Director of Service Ms. C. Godkin recommended the changes to the scheme as outlined be 
considered in accordance with Section 22 of the Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2009 
and the Social Housing Allocation Regulations 2011 (S.I. No. 198 of 2011) and adopted by the 
Members as presented. 

A discussion followed where Ms. Godkin replied to questions from the Elected Members who 
voiced concerns in regard to allocating smaller units to individuals which didn’t allow for a change 
in circumstances, flexibility when making assessments and the status of those on the housing list 
prior to 1st January 2023. 

The Director acknowledged the concerns of the elected members in moving to a new scheme 
where a portion of families expectations would be impacted.  The Director proposed that in the 
circumstance where families were approved for the 3 bed list prior to 1st Jan 2023, that they 
would continue to be considered for this list going forward.  Any changes to circumstances of 
these families or new applicants would be bound by the new allocation scheme. 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive added that all present realised there is no perfect Housing 
Allocation Scheme but that the Director for Housing is trying to make improvements to reflect the 
type of housing family unit on our housing list. 

He stated that if this proposed scheme needed changing the Elected Members could revisit again 
but it was important to adopt the amended Scheme and review in a few months’ time, but the 
Council is trying to help people on our Housing List and that is what the Revised Housing 
Allocation Scheme 2023 does. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan to adopt with a degree of flexibility and review in six months’ 
time, seconded by Cllr. Michael Whelan, the Council resolved to approve the adoption of the 
Revised Housing Allocation Scheme 2023. 

The following Elected Members wanted it noted that they were against the proposal, Cllr. D. 
Hynes, Cllr. M. Sheehan, Cllr. J. Codd, Cllr J. Owens and Cllr. T. Forde. 

At this stage of the meeting returned to Standing Orders. 

4. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

4.  Invitation to London Wexford Association 67th Annual Dinner Dance on 22nd April, 

2023. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens, the Council resolved to 
accept the invitation. 

5.  Invitation for delegation of three to travel to Fleurus in April for the annual easter 

cavalcade 7th April, 2023 to 10th April, 2023. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the Council resolved to 
accept the invite to send a delegation to Fleurus. 

The Members decided to forego a comfort break. 

6.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  When will the Council appoint a Biodiversity Officer and who will be compiling a 

biodiversity plan? 

•  Life on the Edge- grass cutting ongoing and signage not in place. 
•  How many houses does the Housing Department intend to purchase with tenants in 

situ? 

Is the Council planning at providing modular housing? 

•  CCTV Update on Redmond Park, Wexford Town. 
• 
•  Designated Marine Areas and funding for Rosslare Europort. 
IW- power outages in Gorey causing stoppage of water. 
• 
•  Delays in getting water outages resolved. 

Cllr. J. Owens left the meeting at this point. 

•  Query on route selection for motorway. 
•  Possibility of an European Innovation Project for the Bannow Bay area. 
•  Does the Housing Department use external valuations on houses where there are 

notices to quit? 
Issue of houses in Rosslare waiting on an IW connection. 

• 
•  Update sought on concerns raised previously on the use of a particular planning 

condition. 
• 
Is Part V practically impossible to comply with? 
•  Progress in relation to Murphy Floods Purchase. 
•  Active Travel and the possibility of obtaining additional funding. 
•  What happens to tenants in situ with a notice to quit before house is purchased by local 

authority? 

•  End of Eviction Ban. 
•  Outstanding levies on vacant and derelict sites. 
• 
•  False narrative used by some regarding housing Ukrainian Refugees? 

Issues with house at Fearach Cnoic are a matter for the Approved Housing Body. 

5. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

Cllr. L. McDonald left the meeting at this point. 

Is modular housing planned for Gorey? 

• 
•  Can modular housing used for Ukrainian Refugees be repurposed for the housing list 

once the war is over? 
•  Fleadh Cheoil venues. 
•  Lighting in Min Ryan Skate Park. 

Cllr. M. Whelan and Cllr. F.Stables left the meeting at this point. 

•  Expressions of Interest for Advance Tech Buildings for Butlerstown, New Ross. 

Cllr. M. Whelan rejoined the meeting online. 

•  URDF Applications for vacant properties. 

Cllr. A. Donohoe left the meeting at this point. 

•  Homeless Hostel Conditions 
•  Hollow in ditch on Newline Road 

Cllr. C. Byrne left the meeting at this point. 

•  Ongoing issue with smell in Ballyminaun, Gorey. 
•  Update on the Report on alleged defective blocks sought. 
• 
•  Can housing stock in need of repair be sold to enable someone needing housing to avail 

Inactivity on St. Josephs and Tobar Mhuire Sites 

of the Croi Conaithe Grant? 
•  Tenant Purchase Scheme. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Codd, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh and agreed by all, the Council 
agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue past 5.30 pm. 

7.  Minutes of CPG 

7.1 Minutes of CPG Meeting 6th March, 2023. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved to adopt 
the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 6th March, 2023. 

8.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

8.1  New Ross Municipal District Meeting-11th January, 2023 
8.2  Rosslare Municipal District Meeting- 18th January, 2023. 
8.3  Borough District of Wexford Meeting- 16th January, 2023 
8.4  Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting- 16th January, 2023 
8.5  Gorey- Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting- 17th January, 2023 
8.6  Protocol Committee Meeting Borough District of Wexford- 19th December, 2022. 

The Members noted the above correspondence.  

6. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

9.  Correspondence and Communications 

9.1 Letter from Wicklow County Council re motion Irish Forestry dated 14th February, 2023 
9.2 Email from Niamh Redmond, Private Secretary, Minister O’Brien’s Office re: Defective 

Concrete Blocks Scheme dated 15th February, 2023 

9.3 Email from Niamh Redmond, Private Secretary, Minister O’Brien’s Office re: Rent 

Pressure Zones dated 15th February, 2023 

9.4 Letter from Sligo County Council re: resolution dated 22nd February, 2023 
9.5 Letter from Cavan County Council re: resolutions dated 24th February, 2023 
9.6 Letter from Westmeath County Council re: resolution dated 3rd March, 2023 

The Members noted the above correspondence. 

10. Councillor’s Conferences and Training 

10.1  List of Conferences/ Training- List Attached. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes, the Council 
approved attendance for the following training and conferences: 

Training: 
AILG Elected Members Training Programme-Module 2 to Module 6 Training- dates and 
venues as per attached list. 

Conferences: 
21st to 23rd April 

Celtic Conferences “Protecting your mental health as a Public 
Presentative”. 
O’Donovan’s Hotel, Clonakilty, Co.Cork. Fee €100 

10.2  Councillor’s Conference Reports: 

•  Conference Report- Cllr. J. O’Rourke, Modular Housing, Carlingford, Co. Louth- 

3rd to 5th February, 2023. 

The Members noted the report above, as circulated. 

11. Notices of Motion  

11.1 Cllr. Michael Sheehan  

“That this Council reaffirms and recognises the contribution of women who remained out of the 
workforce as homemakers for many years and calls on the government to consider some of the 
Budgetary Surplus to restore all of the pensions who are reduced in value because of the Average 
Contribution Rule introduced in 2012 that punished those who were out of the workforce during 
their working careers. Furthermore, this Council calls on the Government to ensure that any 
Automatic Pension enrolment programme treats every worker fairly regardless of employment 
status. “  

7. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

Response of the Executive:  

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Social Protection, for consideration.  

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and carried. 

11.2 Cllr. John Hegarty  

“Wexford County Council has previously expressed its full support for the Healthy County 
Committees "Not around us" campaign to discourage smoking or vaping in any outdoor area used 
by children and young people.  
In support of the next phase of the "Not around us" campaign, I propose that any event organised 
by, funded by, supported by or on Wexford County Council property which engages children or 
young people would be designated a "Not around us” supporting event and would display the “Not 
around us” logo and signage in promotion of the event and at the event itself. This requirement 
will then be included in any event support or funding agreements, as standard. Soft copy graphics 
will be included on WCC website and the signage and banners available for events through WCC 
MD offices. “  

Response of the Executive:  

The Executive believes that this motion is a natural progression from the following motion which 
was passed in November 2021:  

“Wexford County Council commits to include all Council playgrounds, parks, beaches and areas 
designed for children and young people as part of the initial phase of the Healthy County 
Committee "Not around us" campaign. This will establish a series of places and spaces all over 
County Wexford where children and young people can enjoy themselves in a smoke and vape 
free environment”.  

Currently there are 32 playgrounds, 5 libraries and 8 beaches with Not Around Us signage, in 
addition to the Community sign ups. The Community Department will work with the Healthy 
County Committee and other relevant stakeholders to embed this practice within the organisation.  

The motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded Cllr. L. Kelly and carried. 

11.3 Cllr. Tom Forde, Cllr. Davy Hynes and Cllr. F. O Súilleabháin.  

"We call on Wexford County Council to initiate a full and independent review of our fire service 
which would include an independent feasibility study for a potential full time fire service in 
Wexford."  

Response of the Executive:  

Once the census 2022 report is published it is intended to undertake a review of the Area Risk 
Categorisation (ARC) for County Wexford. This will form the basis of ascertaining if any full-time 
or additional fire station(s) is required in the county. It should be noted that this will be 
independently reviewed and verified by the National Directorate of Fire and Emergency 
Management.  

8. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and carried. 

Cllr. J. Hegarty left the meeting at this point. 

 11.4 Motion from Women’s coalition   

“That this council calls on the government to incentivize sports clubs and community-based 
sporting facilities through sports capital grants and other funding streams to prioritize improving 
the physical and social barriers to young female participation in sports.”  

Response of the Executive:  

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Tourism, Culture, Arts, Gaeltacht, Sport 
and Media, for consideration.  

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Bell, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and carried. 

11.5 Cllr. Davy Hynes   

“This council calls on the Minister of State for Law Reform James Browne TD to introduce 
legislation to call on Supermarkets and other retail outlets to ensure that National Lottery tickets 
and scratch cards be displayed at a separated designate area (similar to the alcoholic drinks area) 
and end the present situation where they are displayed at check outs. As, there are many people 
who have a gambling problem who find these a trigger and encourages these vulnerable people 
to buy these in the hope, often in vain hope of winning. “  

Response of the Executive:  

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister of State with responsibility for Law Reform 
and Youth Justice, for consideration.  

The motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and carried. 

11.6 Cllr. Michael Whelan   

For context, submissions, or observations in relation to planning applications are governed by 
Article 29 of the Planning and Development Regulations 2001, as amended. Article 29 states:   

“(a) Any person or body, on payment of the prescribed fee, may make a submission or 
observation in writing to a planning authority in relation to a planning application within the period 
of 5 weeks beginning on the date of receipt by the authority of the application.  

b) Any submission or observation received  

Shall—  

(i) State the name of the person or body making the submission or observation, and  

(ii) Indicate the address to which any correspondence relating to the application should be sent.  

9. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

Subject to article 26, the planning authority shall acknowledge any submissions or 

(2) 
observations as soon as may be after receipt in the form set out at Form No. 3 of Schedule 3, or a 
form substantially to the like effect.  

(3)  Where a submission or observation, under this article, is received by the planning authority 
after the period of 5 weeks beginning on the date of receipt of the application, the planning 
authority shall return to the person or body concerned the submission or observation received and 
the fee and notify the person or body that their submission or observation cannot be considered 
by the planning authority.  

(4)  Where the planning authority so consents, a submission or observation under sub-article 
(1) may be made in electronic form.”  

“This council asks the Minister to strengthen section 29/b/ sub sections (1) and (2) of the Planning 
and Development Act, (submissions or observations in relation to planning application) to put an 
end to bogus submissions or objections and that the SPC would look to see if this local authority 
could change our own policies to avoid this.  

If this motion is passed that it would be circulated to all local authorities.”  

Response of the Executive:  

The Planning Authority must follow the procedures as set out in the Planning and  
Development Regulations 2001 (as amended) and the Planning and Development Act 2000 (as 
amended) with regard to submissions on a planning application. It would not be possible to add 
additional local processes. The process does not allow for checks on the bona fides of those 
making submissions but focuses on the provision of the name and the address of the person 
making the submission. All acknowledgements, receipts and notifications are sent to the stated 
address.   

The Council notes the concerns and if passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the to the Minister 
for Housing, Local Government and Heritage and all local authorities, for consideration.     

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh and carried. 

11.7 Cllr. Tom Forde  

"We ask that the Minister for Education modernise payroll systems for staff so that online payslips 
are facilitated, and the current spend of approximately €2 million per year on posting payslips is 
significantly reduced and could be used to better resource disadvantaged children or children with 
additional needs."  

Response of the Executive:  

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Education, for consideration.  

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and carried. 

Any Other Business. 

•  The Elected Members were advised that the Protocol Committee approved a Civic 

10. 

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.03.2023 

Reception for Dr. Patrick Prendergast, former President and Provost of Trinity College 
Dublin and Chair of the new Southeast Technological University (SETU). 

It is a requirement that it is noted in the Minutes of a full Council Meeting. 
On the proposal of Cllr. B. A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, the Council 
resolved to approve the Civic Reception. 

•  Cllr. J. Sullivan asked when the training requested on the Vouched Expenses System 
would be delivered. A/ County Secretary Ms. S. Doran explained that a survey will be 
circulated to Elected Members to assist with tailoring the training to be provided in 
March/ April. 

•  Cllr. T. Forde called for  minute of silence to mark the 100th anniversary of the 

execution of James Parle, Patrick Hogan and John Creane in the Old Wexford Gaol. All 
those present stood and observed a minute’s silence in memory of the three men. 

Daingithe ar an        lá de Aibreán, 2023 

____________________ 
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach 

_______________________ 
Michael Drea 
County Secretary 

11. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
