County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes  of  Meeting  of  Wexford  County  Council  held  on  Monday  11th  December  2023  in  the  Council 
Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Donohoe 

Anthony 

Moore 

Jim 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 
(online) 
John 
(online) 
Fionntáin 

Bell 

Maura  

Farrell 

Mary 

Murphy 

Bolger 

Breen 

Browne 

Byrne 

Andrew 
(online) 
Pip 

Aidan 
(online) 

Cathal 

Forde  

Tom 

Murphy 

Hegarty  

John  

O’Rourke 

Hynes 

David 
(online) 

Ó’Súilleabháin 

Kavanagh 

Willie 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Carthy 

Ger 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Staples 

Frank  

Kenny 

Donal 

Sullivan 

Joe 

Laffan 

Garry 

Walsh 

Oliver 

Lawlor  

George 

Whelan 

 Michael 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Jim 
(online) 
Kathleen 

Anthony  
(online) 
Diarmuid 
(online) 

Codd 

Codd-
Nolan 
Connick 

Devereux 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Lynda Lacey, A/Head of Finance 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Director of Services 

Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services  

Ms Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Apologies: Cllr. Jackser Owens 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

•  The family of Anne Culleton, Finance Department, mother of Peter Culleton, Rosslare      Municipal 

District. 

•  The family of Margaret (Maureen) Howlin (née Rossiter), Mother-in-Law of Lisa Howlin, Housing 

Section. 

•  The family of Maeve Collins (née Brennan), mother of Pat Collins, former County Secretary. 

Congratulations: 

There were no congratulations recorded. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1  County Council Meeting 13th November, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy and seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of County Council Meeting on 13th November 2023.  

1.2  Special Meeting of Wexford County Council 29th November, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan and seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Council resolved to confirm the 
Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council on 29th November, 2023.  

1.3  Statutory Budget Meeting of Wexford County Council 4th December, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd-Nolan and seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of Statutory Budget Meeting of Wexford County Council on 4th December, 
2023 

Matters arising: 

Cllr. G. Carthy sought an update in relation to a proposal for traffic calming works in Tagoat village 
and on Wexford County Council’s Section 5 application. 

 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

Cllr. T. Forde sought clarification if all homeless presentations were able to access accommodation 
during the recent cold spell. Cllr. J. Codd objected to homeless persons being accommodated during 
cold spell, only to be put back onto the street. 

Cllr. P. Barden stated that Cllr. G. Carthy had indicated in the Chamber at the November meeting 
that the motions submitted for the Special Meeting of Wexford County Council on 29th November, 
2023 were submitted under Section 149 of the Local Government Act 2001, and this was not 
reflected in the Minutes. 

Cllr. G. Lawlor said it was clear that the Members cannot direct that the actions be done as outlined 
in the motions on 29th November, 2023, therefore the motions were obviously directed to the Chief 
Executive.  

Cllr. J. Hegarty asked for clarity if the motions on 29th November, 2023 were handled appropriately. 
Cathaoirleach J. Fleming indicated that he is satisfied that they were handled correctly and under 
the correct section of the legislation. 

2. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1. 

Intention to dispose of property at 10 Peter Street, Wexford Town 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor,  seconded  by  Cllr.  G.  Laffan  the  Council  resolved  to  dispose  of 
property at 10 Peter Street, Wexford Town, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice 
as circulated.   

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning and 

Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1  LAC2307 - Proposed 5 bedroom single storey fully wheelchair accessible social housing 

unit with associated secondary treatment tank, percolation area, well, roadside boundary re-

alignment and new domestic entrance, with all ancillary works as necessary at Lacken, 

Whitemoor, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded 

by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the development of a 5 bedroom 

single storey fully wheelchair accessible social housing unit with associated secondary treatment 

tank, percolation area, well, roadside boundary re-alignment and new domestic entrance, with all 

ancillary works as necessary at Lacken, Whitemoor, New Ross, Co. Wexford in accordance with the 

terms of LAC2307, as circulated. 

3.2 LAC2309 - Proposed Little Cullenstown Bridge Replacement Scheme on the L4025 Road at 

Little Cullenstown Bridge, Cullenstown Little, Foulksmills, Co. Wexford. 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. P. Barden, seconded by 

Cllr. M. Sheehan, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the proposed Little Cullenstown 

bridge replacement scheme on the L4025 road at Little Cullenstown Bridge, Cullenstown Little, 

Foulksmills, Co. Wexford in accordance with the terms of LAC2309, as circulated. 

3.3 LAC2310 - Proposed Aughnaglaur Bridge Replacement Scheme on the R735 Road at 

Aughnaglaur Bridge, Chapel, Adamstown, Co. Wexford. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded 

by Cllr. P. Barden, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the proposed Aughnaglaur Bridge 

replacement scheme on the R735 Road at Aughnaglaur Bridge, Chapel, Adamstown, Co. Wexford in 

accordance with the terms of LAC2310, as circulated. 

4. 

Replacement of Councillor Leonard Kelly on the Following Committees/Boards 

4.1  Board of Waterford and Wexford Education and Training Board (WWETB) 

Cllr. F. Staples was appointed to the Board of Waterford and Wexford Education and Training Board 
(WWETB) on the proposal of Cllr. C. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd-Nolan. 

4.2  Local Traveller Accommodation Consultative Committee (LTACC) 

There were no nominations forthcoming for the Local Traveller Accommodation Consultative 
Committee (LTACC). 

4.3  Local Community Development Committee (LCDC) 

Cllr. M. Farrell was proposed by Cllr. M. Bell and seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy. 

Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes. 

On a show of hands, Cllr. M. Farrell was deemed to be appointed to the Local Community 
Development Committee (LCDC). 

5. 

Nomination of Construction Industry Federation Representative to Climate Change, Biodiversity 

& Environment SPC 

5.1  Anne Marie Neville, Liam Neville Developments Ltd replacing John Somers (CIF) 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, Anne Marie Neville of Liam Neville 

Developments Ltd. was appointed as the Construction Industry Federation representative to the 

Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment SPC, replacing John Somers. 

6. 

Draft Annual Report 2021 / 2022 - For Adoption 

 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the Council resolved to adopt 

the Draft Annual Report 2021 / 2022. 

7. 

Delegation to travel to New York for St. Patrick's Day 

Mr. E. Hore advised that it is proposed to send a delegation of one Member to New York to 
participate in various engagements for St. Patrick’s Day, on foot of an invitation from the New York 
County Wexford Association. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved to approve the 
New York delegation.   

8. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of queries 

from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Road safety concerns raised in relation to vehicles coming from Ferrycarrig bridge direction 

doing U-turns at the Heritage Park or in the environs of the park. 

•  Request for date for Special Housing Meeting. 

•  Query if public lighting has been removed in Wexford by TII. 

•  Query as to when the proposed masterplan for the Milehouse Road site will go before the 

Enniscorthy Members and if affordable housing will be included on the site. 

•  Timeline for demolition of Murphy Floods building. 

•  Request for update on Croí Conaithe Scheme uptake. 

•  Request that derelict building in Hookless Village be placed on the derelict sites register. 

•  Request that the Members be informed who the staff on the Local Authority Integration 

Team are. 

•  Request for report outlining the number of refugees in each parish relative to the number of 

indigenous people, and the services in those areas. 

•  The funding announcement for Ramsgrange Sewerage Scheme was welcomed and a request 

for a timeline for the project. 

•  Query as to who is responsible for the integration of refugees, the Department of Children 

or Wexford County Council? 

•  Concerns raised in relation to placement of traffic management cones at Rathaspeck. 

•  Request that swing seat be replaced in Coolgreany. 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

•  Query if an affordable housing scheme for properties county wide has been drafted. 

•  Timeline for commencement of acquisition of derelict sites within town centres. 

•  Request that a scheme be put in place for sale of derelict sites acquired within town centres. 

•  Request for list of estates taken in charge by Wexford County Council. 

•  Request that a nighttime economy strategy be put in place and the potential for a nighttime 

economy officer be explored. 

•  Assurances sought that units in Castlelands, Ferns will be delivered in Q1 2024. 

• 

Issue of poor communications by Department of Children raised in relation to the locating of 

refugees around the country. 

•  Water pressure issues at Tara Hill and Castletown raised. 

9. 

Minutes of CPG 

9.1  Minutes of CPG meeting 4th December, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty and seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Council resolved to confirm 

the Minutes of the CPG Meeting on 4th December 2023.  

10.  Minutes for Noting 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

10.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 18th October, 2023 

10.2   Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 25th October, 2023 

10.3    Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 16th October, 2023 

10.4    Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 16th October, 2023 

10.5    Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 17th October, 2023 

The members noted the above minutes. 

11.  

Correspondence and Communications 

11.1  Letter from Clare County Council re motion dated 14th November, 2023 

11.2  Email from Cavan County Council re resolution dated 29th November, 2023 

The members noted the above correspondence. 

12.  

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

12.1  List of Conferences / Training - List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan, the Council approved attendance 
for the following conference and training: 

Training 
6th – 8th February 2024 Association of Irish Regions Annual training “Building capacity to address the 
challenges of a changing Ireland” – Fitzgerald’s Woodlands Hotel, Limerick. 

Conference 
12th – 14th January 2024 Celtic Conferences – The Finance Act 2023 – Carlingford, Co. Louth €130. 

12.2  Councillor's Conference Reports: 

•  Cllr. M. Sheehan - Irish Social Welfare Scheme, Clonakilty, Co. Cork. 
•  Fishguard and Goodwick Council Memorial Service 11th November, 2023 

The members noted the above reports, as circulated. 

13. 

Deferred Notices of Motion - County Council Meeting 13th November, 2023 

13.1  Cllr. M. Sheehan 
"Recognising the invaluable service and support that Carers deliver in our County, and welcoming 
the recent announcement by the Minister for Social Protection of a pathway to a State Pension for 
Carers; this Council calls on the Minister to realign the required contributions from the current 
1040 Contributions (20 years service) for Carers to the standard rate of 520 (10 years) as 
recognition of their service to the State." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and carried. 

13.2    Members of Municipal District of Rosslare 
"Wexford County Council formally requests the Minister to review upwards the qualifying criteria 
for the awarding of funding to local authorities for coastal protection works. These measures are 
essential and require inclusion in the National Coastal Management Strategy currently being 
developed". 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. F. Staples and carried. 

13.3    Cllr. T. Forde 
"This council recognises the housing crisis in County Wexford and the inadequate resources we 
have to deliver for our housing need. We believe that the Housing For All plan does not have the 
ability to deliver for the housing need in our county. We ask that Minister Darragh O' Brien review 
this plan, and to provide additional resources to deliver affordable and secure housing across 
county Wexford." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin. The 
Cathaoirleach advised that there would be a roll call vote on Cllr. T. Forde’s motion. The outcome 
was the motion was defeated with 11 in favour and 21 against. The voting was as follows: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BARDEN PAT 

F 

BELL MAURA 

F 

BOLGER 
ANDREW 

BREEN PIP 

BROWNE 
AIDAN 

BYRNE 
CATHAL 

CODD JIM 

CODD-NOLAN 
KATHLEEN  

CONNICK 
ANTHONY 

DEVEREUX 
DIARMUID 

DONOHOE 
ANTHONY 

A 

A 

A 

F 

F 

A 

A 

A 

A 

County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

FARRELL 
MARY 

FLEMING 
JOHN 

F 

A 

MOORE JIM 

MURPHY 
BARBARA ANNE 

A 

A 

FORDE TOM  F 

MURPHY BRIDIN 

A 

HEGARTY 
JOHN 

HYNES 
DAVID 

KAVANAGH 
WILLIE  

KELLY 
LEONARD 

KENNY 
DONAL 

LAFFAN 
GARRY  

LAWLOR 
GEORGE 

MCDONALD 
LISA 

A 

F 

A 

F 

A 

A 

F 

A 

O’ROURKE JOHN 

F 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN 
FIONNTÁN  

SHEEHAN 
MICHAEL 

F 

A 

STAPLES FRANK 

A 

SULLIVAN JOE 

WALSH OLIVER 

WHELAN 
MICHAEL 

A 

A 

A 

13.4 Cllr. M. Sheehan 
"Acknowledging the right of tenants to own their home as a cornerstone of social housing policy, 
this Council calls on the Minister for Housing and Local Government to amend Statutory Instrument 
Housing Circular 09/2022 and reduce the time tenants are required to hold a tenancy from the 
current 10 years to 5 giving tenants time to save for a mortgage and the opportunity to own their 
own home". 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and carried. 

13.5 Cllr. T. Forde 
"This council calls on the Irish Government and Fianna Fáil Minister for Foreign Affairs Micheál 
Martin to give urgent international leadership within the EU and UN to the plight of the Palestinian 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

people and to fulfil the agreed mandate of the Dáil in 2014 by declaring official recognition for the 
State of Palestine." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin and carried. 

13.6 Cllr. D. Hynes 
"That this Council, supports the call for an immediate ceasefire. and for the Irish Government to 
further increase it's humanitarian aid to the civilians under siege in Gaza, and Palatine. 
The ongoing onslaught on civilians in Gaza, with 9ooo people reported dead, a third of them 
children and over 17,000 wounded, as we witness on a daily basis hospitals, places of worship, 
densely civilian populated areas and refugee camps being obliterated by Israeli missiles, rockets and 
the Israeli Defence Army which is a violation of International law, and is one of the stipulations that 
constitutes a war crime. 
We ask that this motion be accepted by all Councillors. " 

This motion was not taken as events had overtaken the deferred motion. 

13.7  Cllrs. F. Ó Súilleabháin & D. Hynes 
This council deplores the ferocious and genocidal military offensive being waged by Israel against 
the civilian population of Gaza; the breaking of international law by targeting civilians, the 
destruction of civilian infrastructure, the forced mass population displacement and the cutting off 
of vital supplies of water, food, medicines and fuel. 
We believe that the collective punishment and the devastating loss of life is horrifying with more 
than 9,000 civilians killed and tens of thousands injured.   
We believe that unconditional ceasefires are urgently required. However, Israel defies these calls 
for a ceasefire. This cannot stand.  
We further believe that the International Community and the Irish government must now take 
action to enforce international law. We believe that all available diplomatic, legislative and political 
options must be deployed by the Irish government to press the case for an end to all military 
actions and to achieve ceasefires, the immediate release of all hostages and humanitarian aid to 
the Palestinian people. The position of the Israeli Ambassador to Ireland is now untenable, 
the Ambassador should no longer enjoy diplomatic status in Ireland while Israel refuses the 
imperative for ceasefires and as the ambassador continues to seek to justify the ongoing 
bombardment of the civilian population of Gaza.  
The Irish position of upholding international humanitarian law must guide the actions of our 
government. It is 25 years since the signing of the Good Friday Agreement. In Ireland, we know the 
cost of conflict and the value of peace.  We know that political dialogue between all sides with the 
support of partners in the region, and the international community is the only way forward. There 
is no military solution to the rapidly deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in Palestine. 
This council therefore believes that Ireland should lead the way in the development of an 
international peace and conflict resolution initiative for Palestine. We believe this should be an 
issue of national consensus based on the implementation of International Law." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes and seconded by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan proposed the following amended motion which was seconded by Cllr. P. Breen: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

“This Council believes that Ireland should lead the way in the development of an international 
peace and conflict resolution initiative for Palestine. We believe this should be an issue of national 
consensus based on the implementation of International Law." 

On a show of hands, the amended motion was carried. 

14. 

Notices of Motion 

14.1  Cllr. F. ´Ó Súilleabháin 
"This council acknowledges that we have a serious crisis in terms of the maintenance and need for 
reconstruction of many of our rural roads (with an estimated 194 million euro needed in funding). 

That we will write to the Department this month, once again expressing our serious disappointment 
and anger at the lack of funding to maintain and develop our rural roads network to a satisfactory 
standard. 

We call on the government to urgently address this crisis situation as outlined in previous 
correspondence and provide the necessary funding". 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and carried. 

15. 

Any Other Business. 

Cllr. J. Moore raised the issue of serial planning objectors and a case he is aware of where an 
objection was made in the name of a fictious person. Cllr. Moore enquired if Wexford County 
Council liaises with An Bord Pleanála to establish if complaints are from a legitimate source. Cllr.’s 
M. Whelan and D. Hynes supported Cllr. Moore’s view that something should be done to tackle 
spurious complaints.  

Cllr. P. Barden asked the Chief Executive to elaborate on his use of the phrase “quite bizarre” to 
describe the exchange with Alan Corcoran which had recently come to light in the media. Cllr. 
Barden stated that he wished to be disassociated with these comments. Mr. T. Enright addressed 
the matter at length and reiterated his position as outlined in his statement. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Eanáir, 2024. 

________________________  

________________________ 

Cllr. John Fleming 

Cathaoirleach  

Michael Drea,  

County Secretary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.12.23 

 
 
