County Council Meeting 11.10.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 11 October 2021 at 2.30pm 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. B. A. Murphy Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MCDONALD 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

LISA 

JIM 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CONNCIK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Oireachtas:  Ms. V. Murphy, T.D. 

Apologies: 

Cllrs:   P. Breen, D. Devereux, B. Murphy, J. Owens, F. Staples. 

Page 1 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.10.21 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

•  The family of Mr. Richard (Cruise) O’Brien, husband of Margaret O’Brien, Planning 

Department 

•  The family of Mr. James V Whelan, father of James Whelan, Water Services 
•  The family of Mrs. Helen Wickham, mother of Jimmy Wickham, Community Warden 
•  The family of Ms. Tish Codd, Rathfardon Clonroche  
•  The family of Mick Delahunty, Killegney Clonroche 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 

Special Planning Meeting – 6th September, 2021 – 2.30 pm 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed by all 

Cllr.  J.  Hegarty  asked  that  the  Minutes  be  amended  to  reflect  that  he  proposed 
Motion 2.14  

1.2  

Special Planning Meeting – 6th September, 2021 – 5.15 pm 

Proposed by Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor. 

Mr. T. Larkin DoS sought clarification of the resolution adopted by the Members in 
respect of 2.11 (Hegarty) 2.17 (Bolger) and 3.2 (Barden).   

It was agreed that the following resolution appropriately reflected the decision of the 
Members and that the Minutes be amended accordingly: 

Provision for Lower Densities in limited cases: 

To facilitate a choice of housing types within areas, limited provision may be made 

for lower density  schemes   of  a  minimum  of  20  units  per  hectare,  provided that 

within  a  neighbourhood  or  district  as  a  whole  average,  densities  achieve  the 

densities mentioned above. 

1.3 

County Council Meeting – 13th September, 2021 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh and agreed by all 

Page 2 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.10.21 

2.  

Approval in accordance with Section 106 of the Local Government Act, 2001 (as amended): 
Borrowing – Overdraft 2022 

The Members considered the Report of the Head of Finance, and in accordance with Section 
106 of the Local Government Act 2001 (as amended) and on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, 
seconded  by  Cllr.  K.  Codd  Nolan,  unanimously  approved  borrowing  by way  of  temporary 
overdraft of €20 Million to 31 December 2022. 

3.  

Appointments  to  the  Local  Community  Development  Committee  in  accordance  with 
Section 128 of the Local Government Act 2001 (as amended) 
-  Replacement  of  persons  representing  public  authorities  (Health  Service  Executive  and 
Department of Social Protection) 

The Members noted the Report of  Ms. Carolyne Godkin, A/DoS which recommended the 
Members approval to the appointment of Ms. Derval Howley (representing the HSE) and Mr. 
Brendan  Lawton  (representing  the  Dept.  of  Social  Protection)  to  the  Local  Community 
Development Committee. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed by all the Council 
approved the nominations as recommended 

   4.  

CCTV – Approval of Wexford County Council in accordance with Section 38 of the Garda 
Síochána Act 2005 in respect of the following Community CCTV schemes: 

•  Bunclody  –  following  transfer  of  ownership  of  existing  community  CCTV  scheme  to 

Wexford County Council 
•  Wexford – additional cameras 

The  Cathaoirleach  declared  a  beneficial  interest  in  this  agenda  item  in  accordance  with 
Section 177 of the Local Government Act 2001 (as amended) and temporarily withdrew from 
the meeting at this point and took no part in the subsequent discussion. 

Cllr. A. Connick, Leas Cathaoirleach, took the Chair. 

It was agreed to defer consideration of CCTV proposals in respect of Bunclody to allow these 
proposals  to  be  brought  before  the  Members  of  the  Enniscorthy  Municipal  District  for 
further consideration. 

The Members noted the Report of the County Secretary in respect of Wexford Community 
CCTV  Scheme.  On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Whelan,  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan,  the 
Members  approved  the  proposal  to  expand  Wexford  Community  CCTV  Scheme  and 
approved  the  making  of  the  associated  application  to  An  Garda  Siochana  for  approval  in 
accordance with Section 38 of the Garda Síochána Act 2005. 

Page 3 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.10.21 

Following the conclusion of the discussion on this agenda item, the Cathaoirleach returned 
to the meeting and resumed the Chair. 

5.  

Chief Executive's Report  

The Deputy Chief Executive and Members of the Management Team responded to a range 
of queries from the elected members, including the following: 

o  South East Technological University – securing of site 
o 
IW connections to new housing estates - delays 
o  Outdoor Dining Scheme – possibility of extending into 2022 
o  Wexford to Rosslare Greenway - timelines 
o  Vacant Homes Initiative – staff resources 
o  Rosslare Port – Planned developments 
o  Choice-based letting – when to be introduced 
o  Traveller accommodation – update re facilities at Park, Wexford 
o  Energy retrofitting of local authority houses 
o  Oilgate to Rosslare Harbour Road Scheme  
o  Members Portal 
o  Enniscorthy Sports Hub – need to progress Pavilion 
o  R730 – gritting requirement 
o  St Waleran’s Gorey – progression of Part 8 
o  Wastewater capacity at Adamstown village 
o  Water Contamination incident in Gorey: 

Mr. Eamonn Hore provided a detailed report on this incident to the Council 
which outlined the nature of the incident, including dates, contamination 
details, status of the Council’s investigation into the matter, contact with Irish 
Water and EPA etc. 

o  Electricity outages in Rathangan area 
o  Alleged noise nuisance in Kilrane 
o  Streetscape Enhancement Scheme – possibility to extend deadline for works 

completion 

The Council having sat for 1hr 55 minutes, and in view of Covid Standard Operating Guidance 
which recommends meetings of the local authority are limited to 1hr and 55 minutes, the 
Cathaoirleach declared her intention to close the meeting and to defer remaining agenda items to 
the next meeting of the Council 

Page 4 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.10.21 

6. 

Any Other Business 

Cllr. W. Kavanagh drew the attention of the Members to an article published on the 
website of South East Radio. Cllr. Kavanagh questioned the appropriateness of the 
publication by South East Radio, as it appeared to favour one local politician above any 
other.  

Following a brief discussion, it was agreed that the Council would refer the matter to the 
Broadcasting Association of Ireland for consideration, and to revisit the matter on receipt 
of a response. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Samhain, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
David Minogue,  
County Secretary 

Page 5 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
