County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 29 June, 2020 – 11.30 a.m.  
in the “Street”, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. M. Sheehan, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'ROURKE 

JOHN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

STAPLES 

FRANK 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN  KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Ms. C.  Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Apologies:   

None 

1 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

1.    PowerPoint Presentation – N11 / N25 Oilgate to Rosslare Harbour Scheme–   

  Sean Dobbs, TII, Joe Shinkwin, Mott McDonald Consultants 

  Mr. Dobbs and Mr. Shinkwin attended the meeting and provided a comprehensive 

overview of the proposed Scheme. Following the presentation, they responded to a 
number of matters raised by the members, including the following: 

  Timeline for the proposed project – pace of implementation. 
  Project funding. 
  Planning implications for landowners in the vicinity. 
  Economic benefits for towns / villages along the route. 
  Communication with the public. 

2.    Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1   County Council Meeting – 9th March, 2020 

Proposed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke and agreed. 

3. 

Votes of Sympathy and Congratulations 

3.1  Votes of Sympathy 

The  Council  extended  it’s  sympathy  to  the  families  of  the  following  recently 
deceased: 

See Appendix A attached. 

3.   

3.2  Vóta Comhghairdeas 

Dean na Comharleoirí comhghairdeas ar na ndhaoine as seo a leannas: 

Wexford Ladies Football  

Community of Baginbun  

for their successful fundraiser for the  
Women's Refuge and to all the GAA clubs 
who took part in the fundraiser for Pieta  
House. 

who won its first Greencoast award, with 
thanks to the locals, visitors and also the 
Council’s Environment section. 

Gorey boxer Níall Kennedy  

recently nominated as "Hero of the World" 
by the World Boxing Council recently. 

Kilmore native Sam Kendrick,  

recently honoured by the Dutch    
government   for his role in the  
liberation of the Netherlands during the  
Second World War. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

Slaney Search & Rescue 

celebrating 25 years in operation. 

Marguerite Gore 

for her contribution to the sport of Handball 

Pat Collins 

Councillor Mary Farrell 

Lee Whelan   

former Wexford County Council County  
Secretary, on his recent retirement,  
following 42 years of service to the Council  

for  her  social  media  contribution  (Mary’s 
lockdown hits) to the fight against Covid- 
19. 

4.    Proposal under Section 183 of the Local Government Act, 2001 

4.1   Proposed lease of land at Maudlintown, Wexford.  

Proposed by Cllr. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr B.A. Murphy and agreed. 

Tom Enright C.E. paid tribute to developer, Anthony Neville, philanthropist  
Fred Karlsson, Council officials Tony Larkin and Shay Howell and all who  
helped advance this project, which will see the development of a purpose- 
built building for the Wexford Rape and Sexual Support Services on a  
Council-owned site at Maudlintown, Wexford. 

5. 

Annual Financial Statement (AFS) 2019  

Following consideration of the Report of Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance in relation 
to the 2019 AFS, and on the proposal of Cllr. Carthy, seconded by Councillor Bell, 
the  Members  resolved,  in  accordance  with  S.104  of  the  Local  Government  Act 
2001, to authorise the additional expenditure incurred, as detailed in the Report. 

6. 

Borrowing Approval 

6.1  Bank Overdraft Accommodation 

Following consideration of the Report of Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance  
dated 15 April 2020  and on the proposal of Cllr. Bell, seconded by Cllr. B.A. 
Murphy, the Members resolved to approve an increase in the Council’s  
overdraft facilities to €30 million, in accordance with S.106 of the Local  
Government Act 2001. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

6.2  Rebuilding Ireland Home Loans (RIHL) – Associated Borrowing Requirements  

Following  consideration  of  the  Report  of  Ms.  A.  O’Neill,  Head  of  Finance  dated  7 
June, 2020 and on the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. McDonald, 
the Members resolved to approve borrowing by the Council of: 

  €6,894,370 to fund the RIHL programme for the remainder of 2019, and  
  €6,558,101 to fund 2020 approvals.  

in accordance with S.106 of the Local Government Act 2001. 

7. 

Q1 Finance Report 2020 

Noted. 

8.  

Financial Overview 

Ms. A. O’Neill Head of Finance presented a Report to the members which detailed 
the  possible  financial  impact  of  the  Covid-19  Public  Health  Emergency  on  the 
Council’s finances. 

Following  the  presentation,  Ms.  O’Neill  and  members  of  the  Management  Team  
responded to a number of matters raised by the members, including the following: 

  Extension  of  the  2020  commercial  rates  waiver  scheme  beyond  three 

months. 

  The  likelihood  of  recovery  of  the  significant  loss  of  income  incurred  by  the 

Council to date as a result of Covid-19.  

  Estimates of the expected financial loss to the Council as a result of Covid-

19. 

  The  seeking  of  Government  financial  support  to  offset  anticipated  loss  of 

income. 

  Council-arranged workshops to support local business seeking  to tender for 

Council services. 

  Leniency in respect of parking charges and commercial rates. 
  The impact of the likely loss of income on the filling of vacant staff positions. 

There followed a discussion regarding the 1798 Rebellion Centre in Enniscorthy. It 
was noted that in 2018, the Council had resolved to dispose of the property, but that 
the  proposed  purchaser  had  withdrawn  from  the  purchase.  The  Council  had 
subsequently  been  approached  by  a  further  interested  purchaser,  and  while  this 
was  being  examined,  the  final  decision  as  to  any  sale  of  the  property  was  a 
matter  for  the  members  in  accordance  with  S.183  of  the  Local  Government 
Act 2001. 

It  was  now  clear  that  many  of  the  members  of  the  Enniscorthy  Municipal  District 
were not in favour of a sale of the property, and as their consent to such a sale was 
required, a sale of the Centre is no longer under consideration at this time. 

It  was  further  noted  that  current  proposals  to  develop  a  landmark  Enniscorthy 
Tourism  Project  includes  proposals  to  re-accommodate  the  1798  Exhibition  and 
Visitor Experience within that venue. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

At this point, the Meeting adjourned for lunch. 

9. 

Section 55 Planning & Development Act, 2000 (as amended) -   Proposed 
addition  to  the  record  of  protected  structures  -  Famine  Wall  on  lands  at 
Ballyhogue, Bree, Co. Wexford.  

Before discussion commenced on this Agenda item, Cllr. C. Byrne declared that a 
connected  person  held  a  beneficial  interest  in  the  matter.  Cllr.  Byrne  then 
temporarily  withdrew  from  the  meeting  In  accordance  with  S.  177  of  the  Local 
Government  Act  2001  and  remained  absent  for  so  long  as  the  matter  was  under 
discussion. 

Following  consideration  of  the  Report  of  Mr.  D  Houston,  Senior  Planner  on  the 
matter, and on the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne, the 
Council resolved to  amend  the  Record  of  Protected  Structures  to  include  Famine 
Wall on lands at Ballyhogue, Bree, Co. Wexford.  

Following the above discussion and resolution, Cllr. C. Byrne rejoined the meeting.

10.  County Wexford Road Traffic Special Speed Limit (Amendment) Bye Laws    

2020. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  Breen,  seconded  by  Cllr.  Ó  Súilleabháin,  the  Council 
resolved  to  adopt  the  County  Wexford  Road  Traffic  Special  Speed  Limit 
(Amendment) Bye Laws 2020. 

11 

Annual Service Delivery Plan - Quarter 1 Report 

The  Members  noted  the  Report  and  welcomed  evidence  of  progress  in  achieving 
the objectives of the Plan. 

12 

Chief Executive’s Report 

C.E. Mr. Tom Enright presented the Report and together with the members of the 
Management Team responded to a range of related queries, including the following: 

Provision of a technological University for the South East -  
that, 
Carlow IT has engaged with Wexford County  Council on  this issue and a meeting 
has  been  arranged  between  representatives  of  the  college  and  Wexford  County 
Council  to progress matters. 

It  was  noted 

Possible increase in grant aid for the improvement of septic tanks -  It  was  noted 
this is the Minister announced a revision to the scheme in late May 2020, with 85% 
grant  aid  up  to  €5,000  now  available  to  all  eligible  homeowners  regardless  of 
income levels. Any further alterations or amendments to the scheme would require 
Department approval.   

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

Additional  secondary  schools  for  County  Wexford  with  a  view  to  increasing  child 
places - It was noted that no approaches have been made to the Planning  
Department regarding the construction of additional schools. 

Provision of capital projects in Enniscorthy - The CE outlined a range of measures 
recently completed in Enniscorthy and   provided  details  of  others  currently 
in 
progress  which  will  when  completed  significantly  improve  Enniscorthy’s social  and 
economic outlook. 

Funding and Timeline for the redevelopment of Hook Tourism Project. 

The restructuring of roads projects to incorporate improved cycling facilities. 

Speeding up the delivery of the National Broadband Plan in County Wexford. 

The  provision  of  countywide  Meals  on  Wheels  service  to  address  social  isolation 
issues. 

In the context of the County Development Plan, the need to protect rural way of life 
while meeting reasonable planning and environmental guidelines and requirements. 

Recent incident of flash flooding in Market Square Enniscorthy. 

The excellent services offered by Wexford’s public libraries through the challenges 
of Covid-19. 

13 

List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, and in 
accordance with S. 142 of the Local Government Act 2001, the Council approved 
attendance at the following events: 

  Online Training – Effective Social Media Sessions 
  Online training beyond Coronavirus 

The Council also noted Conference Report – Cllr. G. Laffan (Health & Safety in the 
Workplace) and AILG Plenary Members Activity Report for May 2020. 

14.  Report of Corporate Policy Group  

14.1   CPG Meeting 22.06.20 

Proposed by Cllr. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. McDonald and agreed. 

15.  Minutes of Meetings: 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

15.1   Borough District of Wexford Meeting 17.02.2020 
15.2   Rosslare Municipal District Meeting 17.02.2020 
15.3   Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting 18.02.2020 
15.4   New Ross Municipal District Meeting 12.02.2020 & 11.03.2020 
15.5   Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 17.02.2020 
15.6   Transportation and Water Services SPC Minutes 14.11.2019 

  Proposed by Cllr. A. Connick, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed. 

16.   Sealing of Documents 

  Proposed by Cllr. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed. 

17.   Correspondence and Communications 

The Council noted receipt of the following items of correspondence: 

  Letter from Foreign Affairs Office of the people’s Government of Yingtan City 

dated 2nd March, 2020. 

  Letter from Ying Yong, Secretary of the CPC Hubei Provincial Committee dated 

13th March, 2020. 

  Letter from Wu Zhongqiong, Vice Governor of the People’s Government of 

Jiangxi Province China dated 16th March, 2020. 

  Letter from Wang Xiaodong, Governor of Hubei Province dated 17th March, 

2020. 

  Letter from Department of Housing, Planning and Local Government dated 19th 

March, 2020. 

  Email from Lucia Butler, London Wexford Association Chairperson dated 20th 

March, 2020. 

  Email from Gerard Dollard, Chief Executive Officer, Irish Greyhound Board 

dated 6th May, 2020. 

  Email from Jenny Lawlor, Irish Water dated 8th May, 2020. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

18.  Deferred Notices of Motion 

18.1   Cllr. T. Forde 

“Wexford County Council calls on the Office of Public Works to carry out the 
necessary excavation works to recover the remains of Joe Brady, Daniel Curley, 
Michael Fagan, Thomas Caffrey and Tim Kelly, in what is commonly known as the 
Invincibles Yard at Kilmainham jail. 

The bodies of these five members of the Irish National Invincibles lie beneath the 
paving slabs of the yard where they were executed in 1883 for their part in the 
Phoenix Park assassinations. 

The families of the five men are represented by the National Graves Association 
and the wish of the families is for their relatives to be exhumed from Kilmainham jail 
and reinterred in consecrated ground at Glasnevin Cemetery.” 

Proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin and agreed. 

19.  Notices of Motion 

19.1  Cllr. B.A. Murphy  

"That Wexford County Council formally recogonise the local Women's Caucus. This 
organisation is a group of female Elected Councillors, whose membership is 
committed to ensuring that female members are supported in the Local Government 
system, to ensure Members get the support required in political life." 

Proposed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald and agreed. 

19.2   Cllr. M. Whelan 

“That Wexford County Council supports the “The National Small Business Plan “ in 
order to protect the thousands of jobs in Wexford County the SMEs provide to our 
citizens. That Wexford County Council request the Government to fund and urgently 
implement the actions of the “Plan” using EU funding recovery streams. 

The “Covid-19 Regional Economic Analysis “ report independently carried out and 
published by the three Regional Assemblies of Ireland, who play a leadership role in 
regional development, has identified the extent of the severe economic exposure to 
the impact of Covid-19 to commercial businesses in County Wexford” 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald and agreed. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 29.06.20 

19.3   Cllr. Tom Forde 

‘This Council sends condolences to the family of the late George Floyd and 
condemns the appalling murder of him in Minneapolis at the hands of a police 
officer and, by extension, all inappropriate and disproportionate force used by police 
departments across the USA.   

Furthermore this Council wishes to convey to the US   Ambassador in Ireland its 
deep concern about the murder and subsequent heavy handed police response to 
peaceful protestors who reacted to Mr Floyds death with revulsion.  

This Council, as a result of the murder and response to protests, calls on the 
Minister of Foreign Affairs in Ireland to contact the US Ambassador and, in turn, to 
convey to the President and government of the USA our condemnation of these 
actions.’ 

Proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed. 

20.  Any Other Business   

It was noted that any Councillor who wished to be considered for membership of the 
Wexford  County  Council  Committee  on  Mental  Health  &  Well-Being  should  make 
their interest  known to the County Secretary. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

Daingithe ar an 27ú la de Iúil, 2020. 

________________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
County Secretary 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
