County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held remotely on Monday 9 November, 2020 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. Ger Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CODD 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD  SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WALSH 

OLIVER 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD  LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive  
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 14th September, 2020 
1.2 Special County Council Meeting - 14th September, 2020 
1.3 Budget Working Group Meeting – 2nd November, 2020 

Page 1 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  B.A.  Murphy,  seconded  by  Cllr.  D.  Hynes  and  agreed 
unanimously the Council resolved to adopt each of the above Minutes. 

2.  Amendment to Standing Orders – Remote Meetings 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan,  seconded  by  Cllr.  J.  Moore  and  agreed 
unanimously  the  Council  resolved  to  amend  its  Standing  Orders  by  insertion  of 
Standing Orders (6)a to (6)h as circulated and considered. 

The Members expressed their desire to hold physical meetings of the Council as a first 
choice and to limit remote meetings of the Council to essential circumstances only. 

3.  Notice under Section 183 of the Local Government Act, 2001: 

3.1 Proposed disposal of property at Spawell Road and 1798 Street, Wexford.  

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor,  seconded  by  Cllr.  J.  Hegarty  the  Council 
resolved  to  dispose  of  the  above  property  in  accordance  with  the  Section  183 
Notice as circulated. 

4.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

4.1 LAC 2001 – Proposed development - Alterations to the Ballast Office to facilitate a 
change  of  use  from  office  to  shop/restaurant.  The  Ballast  Building  is  a  protected 
structure (RPS No. WBC0120) at Ballast Office, Crescent Quay, Wexford.  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Bell, seconded by  Cllr. D. Hynes the  Council resolved 
that  the  development  should  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  Report  of  the 
Chief Executive as circulated. 

5.  Proposal under Section 106 of the Local Government Act, 2001: 

5.1 Approval sought for borrowing by way of temporary overdraft accommodation of  

€20m for the financial year to 31st December, 2021. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  J.  Sullivan,  seconded  by  Cllr.  D.  Kenny  the  Council 
resolved to approve the borrowing proposal as outlined above. 

Page 2 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

6.  Section 55 Planning and Development Act 2000 (as amended):  

6.1 Proposal to add a Famine Wall on lands at Ballyhogue, Bree, to the Record of 
  Protected Structures.  

Before discussion commenced on this Agenda item, Cllr. C. Byrne declared that a 
connected  person  held  a  beneficial  interest  in  the  matter.  Cllr.  Byrne  then 
temporarily  withdrew  from  the  meeting  In  accordance  with  S.  177  of  the  Local 
Government  Act  2001  and  remained  absent  for  so  long  as  the  matter  was  under 
discussion. 

Following  consideration  of  the  Report  of  Mr.  D  Houston,  Senior  Planner  on  the 
matter, and on the proposal of Cllr.  A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke, the 
Council resolved to  amend  the  Record  of  Protected  Structures  to  include  Bellview 
Famine Wall on lands at Ballyhogue, Bree, Co. Wexford.  

It  was  agreed  that  the  Planning  Authority  would  also  examine  the  possibility  of 
adding  2  local  gate  lodges  in  the  Ballyhogue  area  to  the  Record  of  Protected 
Structures. 

Following conclusion of this discussion, Cllr. Byrne rejoined the meeting. 

7.  Report Community Defibrillator Programme  

The  Members  noted  the  Report  as  circulated.  Ms.  C.  Godkin  A/DoS  advised  that  the 
Council  was  not  in  a  position  to  carry  out  works  of  maintenance  or  repair  to 
defibrillators across the county. 

8.  Social Housing - Update 2020  

Ms. C. Godkin presented the Report as circulated and responded to queries from the 
Members on a range of housing issues including the following: 

o  Anti-social behavior 
o  Repairs to void properties 
o  Re-letting of vacant properties and associated costs 
o  Traveller accommodation programme 
o  Provision of affordable accommodation 
o  Private rented inspections 
o  Covid 19 - impact on repairs programme 
o  Housing targets for 2020 
o  Homeless services 
o  Re-letting obligations of Council following tenancy surrender 
o  Conducting repairs where property temporarily vacated 
o  Conduction of inspections for grant purposes 
o  Funding for Planned Maintenance 
o  Emergency housing arrangements during severe weather 

Page 3 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

It was agreed that the Council would convene a Special Meeting early in the New Year 
to discuss Housing issues. 

9.  Choice Based Letting Report 

Ms.  C.  Godkin  presented  the  Report  as  circulated.  The  Members  welcomed  the 
proposal and asked that efforts be made to make the properties in question viewable 
on-line. 

10. Section 199/200 of the Local Government Act 2001 - Consideration of the 

Wexford County Council Draft Burial Ground Byelaws 2020 

On the proposal of Cllr. W. Kavanagh, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor, the Council 
resolved to approve the draft Burial Ground Byelaws 2020 for public consultation 
purposes. 

11. Proposed nomination of Mary Browne Sinnott as Business Pillar representative 

to LCDC replacing Madeline Quirke.  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens, the Council resolved 
to approve the nomination of Ms. Mary Browne Sinnott as Business Pillar 
representative to LCDC 

12. Proposed nomination of Michael Wall as representative to the Housing & 

Community SPC replacing Ms. Clair Walsh.  

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty, the Council resolved to 
approve the nomination of Mr. Michael Wall as Trade Union Representative to the 
Housing and Community Strategic Policy Committee 

13. Chief Executive’s Report – November 2020 

Mr.  T.  Enright  CE  presented  the  Report  as  circulated  and  together  with  the  other 
members  of  the  Management  Team  responded  to  queries  from  the  Members  on  a 
range of issues including the following: 

  Enniscorthy Flood Relief Scheme 
  Wexford Town Allotments 
  Septic Tank Inspections 
  Heritage Officer appointment 
  Development of St Waleran’s lands, Gorey 
  Removal of oil tanks from New Ross quayside 
  Development of High Hill New Ross 
  Assessment of Housing Needs 
  Public lighting upgrades 

Page 4 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

  Development of New Ross Fire Station 
  New Ross Advance Factory project 
  Litter / Dumping – and associated surveys 
  Keep Wexford Beautiful Competition 
  Slipway charges 
  Trading opportunities in public amenities and open spaces 
  Public lighting at Ballycarney 
  Duncannon Pontoon 
  Slaney Search & Rescue – provision of pontoon 
  Environment Rapid Response programme 

The Cathaoirleach informed the Council that he had received the prescribed notification 
from the Chief Executive in accordance with Section 147 of the Local Government Act 
2001 (as amended) of Mr. Enright’s decision to extend his tenure as Chief Executive of 
Wexford County Council for a period of 3 years. The Cathaoirleach added that he had 
notified  the  Minister  for  Housing,  Planning  and  Local  Government  and  the  Public 
Appointments Service in accordance with the prescribed legislation. 

The  members  joined  in  welcoming  Mr.  Enright’s  decision  and  they  congratulated  the 
Chief  Executive  on  his  continuing  ambition  for  and  outstanding  contribution  to  the 
county. 

Mr.  Enright  thanked  the  Members  for  their  kind  comments  and  assured  them  of  his 
continued efforts for County Wexford. 

14. Report of Corporate Policy Group  

14.1 CPG Meeting 5th October, 2020 
14.2 CPG Meeting 2nd November, 2020  

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor,  seconded  by  Cllr.  D.  Hynes,  the  minutes  of  the 
above meetings were adopted by the Council. 

Cllr. Hegarty requested that his attendance at the CPG meeting of 2 November 2020 
be noted in the minutes of that meeting. 

15. Minutes of Meetings 

15.1 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 20.07.2020 
15.2 Rosslare Municipal District Meeting 20.07.2020 
15.3 Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting 21.07.2020 
15.4 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 08.07.2020 
15.5 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 20.07.2020 

The Members noted the Minutes of the above meetings 

Page 5 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

16. Correspondence and Communications 

16.1  
16.2  
16.3  

Letter from Kildare County Council dated 10th September, 2020 
Letter from Sligo County Council dated 14th September. 2020 
Letter from Meath County Council dated 7th October, 2020 

The Members noted the above correspondence and on the proposal of Cllr. M.  
Whelan, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne agreed that the Council would write to the 
relevant Ministers in support of the Motion from Sligo County Council. 

17. Notices of Motion 

17.1 Deferred Motion -  Cllr. T. Forde 

"I ask that Wexford County Council work to introduce a Choice Based Letting Scheme 
in 2020 which would allow housing applicants to express an interest in a property that 
matches their needs in any area. 

The scheme is being successfully used by other Local Authorities at present and was 
included in the Government Action Plan for Housing and Homelessness (2016)”. 

Cllr. Forde introduced the Motion and declared that he was satisfied at the manner in 
which the Council had responded to this request. 

17.2 Cllr. M. Sheehan 

“While understanding the need for a rigid defence against Covid, there is a growing 
acceptance of the impact the restrictions have had on maternity services and in 
particular peoples’ mental health.  While accepting there is a need to rebalance Covid 
19/ Public Heath Safety Measures with expectant families accessing Health Services; 
this Council calls on the Government, the HSE and NPHET to review and amend the 
Maternity Service regulations  to permit women accessing maternity medical services 
or appointments be accompanied by a family member or companion for their 
consultation/ service.  “ 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and agreed. 

17.3 Cllr. J. Owens 

“That the Residents of Nos 1 to 11 New Range, Templeshannon, Enniscorthy be 
granted use of the grounds at the back of the properties for use as allotments”.     

Proposed by Cllr. J. Owens, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne and agreed. 

Mr. T. Larkin DoS advised the meeting that he has commenced the process of putting 
Mr. Owens’ request into effect and would consider how best the lands in question 

Page 6 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

(some of which are unregistered) could be disposed of in partnership with the residents 
of the area. 

17.4 Cllr. M. Farrell 

“I propose that this Council write to Minister Roderic O’Gorman to call for his 
Department to implement and support the right to a Personal Assistance Service (PAS) 
for disabled people to have freedom, choice and control over all aspects of their lives to 
enable them to fully participate in an inclusive society as equals. 

The Motion passed in Dáil Eireann on the 19th November 2019 affirms that PAS that 
supports disabled people to live independent lives should be legislated for as a right.” 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed. 

17.5 Cllr. T. Forde 

"I ask that this Council write to the Minister of Housing, Local Government and Heritage 
and request that he attend (physically or virtually) the next meeting of Wexford County 
Council to address the crisis in housing faced by our local authority." 

Cllr. Forde proposed the Motion and spoke on it briefly.  

Mr. Enright advised the meeting that that the Minister had very recently met with Ms. C. 
Godkin A/DoS and the Chief Executive to discuss housing issues in Wexford and he 
also noted the intention of the Council to hold a Special Meeting in the near future to 
discuss Housing matters. 

Mr. Enright suggested that the proposed meeting with the Minister be postponed until 
the Special Housing Meeting had concluded and any items identified at that meeting for 
discussion could be raised with the Minister. This was agreed. 

17.6 Cllr. J. Fleming 

“I am calling on Wexford County Council to paint all disability car parking spaces blue 
for the purposes of clarity so that there cannot be any confusion as the space is clearly 
marked blue for disability parking only. “ 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed. 

17.7 Cllr. G. Carthy  

“Cllr Ger Carthy calls on Wexford County Council to allow Wexford County Fire Service 
participate in the fire co responder scheme.”  

Proposed by Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed. 

Page 7 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

17.8 Cllr. C. Byrne 

"Wexford County Council write to the Minister for Transport to provide a road map to 
address the current wait times for Driving Tests." 

Following discussion, it was agreed to amend the motion by inserting the words “as a 
matter of urgency” after the word “map”.  

The amended Motion was proposed by Cllr. C. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan 
and agreed. 

17.9 Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

"This council acknowledges the problem of homelessness in this county and those 
forced to sleep rough, especially during these winter months. That we will re-establish 
some form of emergency accommodation for those who may need it in North Wexford, 
as existed up until two years ago." 

Proposed by Cllr. F. O’Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and agreed. 

17.10 Cllr. D. Hynes 

“Many applicants who received approval for the Rebuilding Ireland Home  are now 
through no fault of their own finding a major problem drawing down the mortgage 
because they may be receiving PUP due to the Covid Lockdown. The Minister of the 
Dept of the Environment etc needs to address this urgently.” 

Proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald and agreed. 

17.11 Cllr. D. Hynes & Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

“In light of the number of recent deaths of people experiencing homelessness, we ask 
that Wexford County Council reinstate/create an out of hours council contact service to 
support those experiencing homelessness. This could assist homeless individuals, and 
councillors and local groups as their advocates, in dealing with emergency situations 
and in accessing emergency accommodation.” 

Proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. F. O’Súilleabháin and agreed 

18.   Any Other Business  

The  Cathaoirleach  invited  the  Chief  Executive  to  make  some  final  comments.  Mr. 
Enright  thanked  the  elected  members  for  their  cooperation  in  facilitating  the  first  fully 
remote meeting of the Council and paid tribute to the Council’s IT staff for their work in 
arranging the meeting. 

Page 8 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.11.20 

He added that a number of significant projects, supported by Wexford County Council 
were progressing across the county: 

Opening of Wexford Rape Crisis Centre 
Further funding announced for New Ross to Waterford Greenway 
Announcement by CSC of 75 jobs in Gorey 

The  Cathaoirleach  and  elected  Members  recorded  their  congratulations  to  the 
following: 

  Rosslare  and  Fethard  RNLI,  following  a  successful  rescue  off  the  South  East 

coast 

  American President elect Mr. Joe Biden and American Vice-President elect Ms. 

Kamela Harris 

  The Starlights GAA team, following their recent County Final success 

  Joseph O’Brien and his father Aidan, following a 1-2 success in the Melbourne 

Cup 

The Cathaoirleach and elected Members also offered their sympathies to the 
Donoghue Family and Stafford Family, following the recent passing of Mr. Jim 
Donohoe of Ferns and Mr. Sean Stafford, Gorey 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an 14ú lá de  Nollag, 2020. 

________________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
County Secretary 

Page 9 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
