County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 10 May, 2021 (via MS TEAMS) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. G. Laffan and Cllr. G. Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN 

FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CODD 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD  SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

STAPLES 

 FRANK 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WALSH 

OLIVER 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Public:  

Several members of the public attended remotely 

Oireachtas:  Ms. V. Murphy, T.D. 

Apologies: 

Cllr. F. Staples 

Page 1 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

Cllr. G. Laffan, Leas-Cathaoirleach took the Chair in the temporary absence of the Cathaoirleach, The 
Leas-Cathaoirleach opened the meeting and welcomed the attendance. 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

•  Mr. Larry Joyce Clonroche 
• 
Jimmy Murphy Clonroche 
•  Tom Murphy Enniscorthy and formally of St Anne’s Terrace Rathnure 
•  Mr. Paddy Cummins Campile  

Votes of Congratulations: 

The Council expressed their congratulations to: 

• 

Ireland’s  4/200  metre  ladies  relay  team  and  especially  Sophie  Becker  from  landscape 
Ballykelly, New Ross who broke the Irish record and were placed second at the IAAF world 
relays in Poland . 

•  Tadhg  Furlong  from  Campile,  New  Ross  on  been  chosen  on  the  lions  team  to  tour  South 

Africa for the test series  

•  Aidan O Brien on training the winner of the 1000 Guineas in new market , making him the 

first trainer since George Lambton in 1918 to win the 1000 Guineas 3 years in a row . 

• 

• 

Jim Bolger on training the winner of the 2000 Guineas in Newmarket 

Jamie Codd, Jockey, on his retirement from Point-to-point racing 

•  Waterford Institute of Technology (WIT) and IT Carlow following their formal submission of 

an application to merge and create a technological university for the south east  

• 

Jim and Margaret Mernagh, on winning Breeder of the Month award for Latest Exhibition, 
and the National Hunt Breeder of the Year trophy also 

•  Wexford Senior Hurling Team following their recent NHL successes 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1  

 County Council Meeting – 12th April, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming and agreed by all 
the Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes. 

Page 2 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

1.2  

Special County Council Meeting – 26th April, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming and agreed by all 
the Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes. 

2. 

Ratification  of  Mr.  Tom  Doyle  as Agriculture/Farming  Representative  to  the  Planning  & 
Building Control SPC replacing Mr. Jer O’Mahony. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed by all the Council 
resolved to ratify the nomination by the IFA of Mr. Tom Doyle as Agriculture/Farming 
Representative to the Planning & Building Control SPC (replacing Mr. Jer O’Mahony) 

3. 

Establishment of Litter Management Committee. 

The Council considered the report of Ms. Carolyne Godkin, A/DoS on this matter. On the 
proposal of Cllr. P. Barden, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed by all the Council resolved 
to establish the above committee and to appoint to that committee those elected 
members as set out in the report. 

4. 

Approval of New Ross CCTV application. 

The Council considered the report of Mr. David Minogue, County Secretary on this matter. 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and and agreed by all, 
the Council resolved to approve the application of Wexford County Council to An Garda 
Síochána for authorisation of the New Ross Community CCTV Scheme. 

5. 

Proposed date of AGM - 28th June, 2021 via Teams 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by all, the Council 
resolved to hold the 2021 Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council on Monday 28 June, 
2021. 

6. 

Chief Executive's Report  

The Chief Executive and Members of the Management Team responded to a range of 
queries from the elected members, including the following: 

•  Small Business Grant Scheme 

o  161 applications received to date   
o  Following a request that the scheme be extended to non-food outlets, Tony 
Larkin DoS agreed to bring the suggestion to the attention of Fáilte Ireland 

•  Proposed upgrade of electrical supply at Wexford Quays 

o  Welcomed by the Council  

Page 3 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

•  Dredging at The Crescent 

o  The members noted the appointment of a consultant to design these works. 

•  Courtown Swimming Pool and Courtown Woods 

o  The Members noted that the proposed sale includes both Courtown Pool 

and Courtown Woods 

o  Throughout the liquidation process, the Council has sought to safeguard the 

status of the pool and woods as a public amenity 

o  The proposed purchaser has ambitious plans for the upgrade and 

o 

improvement of the pool facilities 
It was agreed to refer further consideration of the matter to the 
Gorey/Kilmuckridge Municipal District  

•  Affordable Housing proposals at Ramsfort Gorey 

o  Significant advertising efforts to be made in seeking expressions of interest 

•  Provision of motorhome facilities 
•  Provision of open-water swim lessons at Kilmore 

o  Consideration to be given to offering lessons at other locations 

•  Funding of piers and harbours 
•  Appointment of Greenway Business Development Officer 

o  Presentation to be made to NRMD 

•  Town and Village Renewal Scheme 2021 

o  MD’s to bring projects forward for consideration 
o  Consideration to be given to holding workshops to support application 

process 

o  Process being led by Economic Development Department (as opposed to 

Community) in view of increased economic focus of the Scheme 

o  Scheme includes provision for a high quality application in respect of a town 

of population >10,000 <15,000 

•  Development of New Ross Advance Factory 

o  Planning application to be lodged shortly 

•  Public lighting investment 
•  Appointment of Heritage Officer – noted as imminent 
•  Development of MUGA at Min Ryan Park 
•  Extension of Wexford Arts Centre – welcomed by all 
• 

Improvements at Old Dublin Road – Master Plan draft to be brought before next 
Enniscorthy MD – initial investment estimated at €150,000 

•  Enniscorthy Decarbonisation Zone  

o  A high-level analysis of 17 candidate sites conducted to select location 
o  Target of 7% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 
o  Presentation to be made to update Enniscorthy MD 
•  Development of Ambulance Service on site of former NR Fire Station 
•  Refurbishment of vacant local authority houses 
•  Local authority Housing Building Programme 2021/22 
•  Housing adaptions grants – funding increase welcomed 
• 

Invitation to Housing Minister to visit Wexford 

o  Minister’s office has indicated willingness to attend physical meeting 

Page 4 of 9 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

•  Local Improvement Schemes – funding announcement due shortly 

7. 

Minutes of CPG  

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Connick, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and agreed by all, the 
Council resolved to adopt the following: 

o  Minutes of Expanded CPG Covid-19 Committee Meeting 6th April, 2021 
o  Minutes of CPG Meeting 6th April 2021 
o  Minutes of CPG Meeting 4th May 2021 

8. 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

The Council noted the following Minutes: 

8.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting - 10.02.2021 & 10.03.2021 
8.2  
8.3  
8.4  
8.5  
8.6 

Rosslare Municipal District Meeting - 15.02.2021 & 15.03.2021 
Borough District of Wexford Meeting - 15.02.2021 & 15.03.2021 
Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting - 15.02.2021 & 15.03.2021 
Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting - 16.02.2021 & 16.03.2021 
 Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment SPC Meetings 24.09.2020 
&19.11.2020 
Transportation & Water Services SPC 10.12.2020 

8.7  

At this point the meeting adjourned for a comfort break. At the resumption of the meeting, the 
Cathaoirleach joined the meeting and took the Chair. 

9. 

List of Councillor's Conferences & Training 

The Members noted the holding of training and conferences as circulated and on the 
proposal of Cllr. A. Connick, seconded by Cllr. D. Devereux and agreed by all the Members 
approved attendance at the event(s) in accordance with S. 142 of the Local Government 
Act 2001 (as amended). 

10. 

Correspondence and Communications: 

10.1   Letters from Sligo County Council re 4 no. motions dated 3rd March, 2021. 

On the proposal of Cllr. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all, the 
Council agreed to support the Motion from Sligo County Council in relation to An 
Post. 

10.2   Letter from Leitrim County Council dated 5th March, 2021. 
10.3   Letter from Limerick City & County Council re motion dated 9th March, 2021. 

Page 5 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

10.4   Letter from Niamh Redmond, Private Secretary to Minister Darragh O'Brien dated 

9th March, 2021. 

10.5   Letter from Dun Laoghaire Rathdown County Council dated 9th March, 2021. 
10.6   Letter from office of Minister Heather Humphreys TD, Department of Social 

Protection dated March 2021. 

10.7   Email from Miriam Rooney, Private Secretary to the Minister for Health dated 15th 

March, 2021. 
 Letter from Kerry County Council re land bill dated 16th March 2021. 

10.8 

10.9    Letter from Minister Darragh O'Brien, TD re Seachtain Na Gaeilge dated 16th 

March,   2021.  

10.10   Letter from Galway County Council re: motion dated 24th March, 2021. 
10.11   Letter from Louth County Council re: motion dated 24th March, 2021. 
10.12   Letter from Department of Housing, Local Government and Heritage dated 27th    

January, 2021 re: Disabled Persons Grant for Wexford County Council.  

10.13   Letter from Cork City Council re: motion dated 8th April, 2021 
10.14   Letter from Roscommon County Council re: motion dated 15th April, 2021 
10.15   Letter from Donegal County Council re: motion dated 15th April, 2021 
10.16   Letters from Sligo County Council re: 2 motions dated 15th April, 2021 
10.17   Letter from Limerick City & County Council re land development agency bill dated 

16th April, 2021 

10.18   Letter from Limerick City & County Council re: One-Off Rural Housing dated 16th 

April, 2021 

10.19   Letter from Department of Housing, Local Government and Heritage re: Land    

Development Agency Bill dated 19th April, 2021. 

10.20   Letters from Clare County Council re: 3 motions dated 26th April, 2021. 
10.21   Email from Minister Anne Rabbitte's Office, Minister for Disabilities re: Personal  

Assistant Service dated 29th April, 2021. 

10.22  Letters from Dun Laoghaire Rathdown County Council re motion dated 30th April, 

2021. 

The Council noted the above correspondence. 

Deferred Notices of Motion from Council Meeting - 12th April, 2021 

11.1   Cllr. F. Ó. Súilleabháin 

"This Council calls on Minister O'Brien to remove the Shared Equity Scheme section from his 
Affordable Housing Bill, as the implementation of a similar bill elsewhere has resulted in an 
increase in house prices-something which is a huge obstacle to families trying to find a 
home." 

Proposed by Cllr. O’Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by all 

Page 6 of 9 

 
 
 
 
          
 
         
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

11.2  Cllr. J. O'Rourke 

"I call on Wexford County Council to write to the Minister asking that maternity leave be 
granted in support women and their partners/husbands who suffer still births or 
miscarriage after 24 weeks as generated by legislation passed in New Zealand recently." 

Proposed by Cllr. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by all 

11.3   Cllr. J. Fleming 

"That this Council calls on the Minister for Social  Protection Community  and Rural  
Development Heather Humphries to increase the children's allowance age from 18 years  to 
21 years for students in full time education and students in apprenticeships to help with 
their financial burden ." 

Proposed by Cllr. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by all 

11.4   Cllrs, D. Devereux, A. Donohue, K. Codd Nolan, C. Byrne, O. Walsh, B. Murphy, F. Staples, 

J. Moore. 

'That motions submitted by Elected Members, which if approved could result in unplanned 
expenditure or deficits, or result in a deviation from a previously approved budget 
allocation, be assessed by the relevant Department, prior to it's inclusion on the Agenda, to 
determine the scale of the likely expenditure or deficit and their effect on existing budget 
allocations.' 

Proposed by Cllr. D. Devereux, seconded by A. Donohoe. Following a vote on the matter, it 
was agreed to refer the Motion to the Protocol Committee for further consideration before 
a final decision on the matter. 

11.5   Cllr. J. Moore 

'WCC calls on the Ministers of Finance & Tourism, Culture, Arts, Gaeltacht, Sport and 
Media, as a matter of urgency to recognise the ongoing impact of Covid 19 on small 
businesses and particularly those that are strategic tourism businesses in the rural and 
coastal communities by: 

Allowing such businesses to immediately qualify for the Covid Restrictions Support 
Scheme (CRSS) and apply CRSS support retrospectively to these small businesses 
from the date the scheme came into effect. 

Page 7 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

Instructing Failte Ireland  to immediately remove / reduce the annual turnover 
threshold of 50K for business operators as applied in the Business Continuity Scheme 
and extend this essential Covid support to such businesses where CRSS support is 
not provided. 

This COVID support is urgently required to support and acknowledge these strategic 
tourism businesses in rural and coastal communities who are significant contributors to our 
tourism economy and will be key contributors to the return to tourism growth.' 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all 

11.6   Cllr. T. Forde 

"This councils calls on Fianna Fáil Minister Darragh O'Brien to end the practice of including 
payments such as the Working Family Payment (WFP) as a means of income when applying 
for housing supports. Such payments aim to give extra financial support to people on low 
pay but this policy is directly resulting in the exclusion of lower income families from 
qualifying for Social housing supports." 

Proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by all. 

11.7   Cllr. G. Carthy  

"The Rosslare Municipal District call on the Executive of Wexford County Council to proceed 
with the planning application for the proposed Rosslare Harbour to Wexford Town & the 
Rosslare Harbour to Wellingtonbridge Greenway project, be it on, or beside, the existing 
Rosslare Harbour to Wellingtonbridge rail line to include beside the live rail line from 
Rosslare Harbour to Wexford Town, and that the current feasibility and design of the 
project not be lost due to a rail review." 

Proposed by Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly.  

An amendment to the Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan to remove the references 
to “Wellingtonbridge” and replace with “Waterford”. The amendment was seconded by 
Cllr. M. Bell. The amended Motion was duly put and agreed by all. 

At this point, per the Agenda, the Cathaoirleach invited the representatives of National 
Broadband Ireland to address the meeting. 

Page 8 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.05.21 

Mr. Joe Lavin, Chief Commercial Officer at National Broadband Ireland (NBI) addressed the 
meeting and outlined the progress to date made by NBI in rolling out the National Broadband Plan 
across County Wexford. The plan will guarantee the delivery of highspeed fibre broadband to 
approximately  22,000 premises in Wexford who currently do not have fibre broadband and have 
broadband speeds below 30 mbps. 

The rollout will include the installation of additional roadside poles and additional undergrounding 
works to augment the current EIR infrastructure. NBI expects to lodge an application with Wexford 
County Council under S. 254 of the Planning Act to install these additional poles. 

NBI expects to “pass” the first Wexford properties before end 2021. This will then allow any of  the 
property owners whose premises has been passed to apply to a commercial broadband provider 
for a connection to the NBI provided infrastructure. NBI will charge a once off fee to the 
commercial providers of approx.. €100 per premises passed. 

Members who may wish to make representation on behalf of their constituents may send such 
representations to reps@nbi.ie. 

It being past 5.30pm, and on the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden, the 
Council agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue. 

Mr. Lavin responded to the Members queries, following which the Cathaoirleach thanked Mr. 
Lavin for his informative presentation. Mr. Lavin then withdrew from the meeting. 

Any Other Business 

A number of Members expressed concern in relation to an objection by An Taisce to a proposed 
cheese plant by Glanbia at Belleview, Co Kilkenny. 

A brief discussion also took place regarding a clifftop walkway in Rosslare and related issues 
surrounding private lands and public rights of way. 

The Cathaoirleach thanked all for their attendance and closed the meeting 

Daingithe ar an           lá de  Meitheamh, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr. Ger Carthy 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
David Minogue 
County Secretary 

Page 9 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
