County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 14th November, 2022 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA 
ANNE 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN  FIONNTÁN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARRY 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. Sean Meyler, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Apologies: 

Cllr. Frank Staples 

Votes of Sympathy: 

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to the family of Breda Stacey, wife of 
retired staff member Noel Stacey. 

Votes of Congratulations 

Cllr.  M.  Whelan  congratulated  Tadhg  Furlong  on  captaining  the  Irish  Rugby  team  in  the 
Autumn Nations Series clash with Fiji. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan congratulated all the winners of the Environmental awards. 

1. 

Presentation to the Council – National Broadband Ireland 

Mr. Pat O’Toole, National Broadband Ireland (NBI) gave a comprehensive presentation in 
which he outlined the role of NBI and the process they must follow. He provided an update 
on fibre to the home in Co. Wexford. Mr. O’Toole advised that there are 22,940 properties 
in their intervention area and by June 2023, NBI will have 11,168 properties who can 
connect. He said the NBI spend in Wexford will be approx. €88m. He confirmed that they 
have 1,124 active connections with 107 pending. 

Mr. O’Toole responded to a wide range of queries from the Elected Members in regard to 
the following: 

•  Will areas where current providers are unable to deliver the speeds necessary be 

picked up by NBI? 

•  The cost for the entire country and the number of providers? 
•  Sensitivity around location of towers and pylons. 
•  Possibility of expediting roll out? 
•  How do you get into the intervention area? 
• 
• 

Is EU law obstructing us from competing with private providers? 
If a house is built after NBI put infrastructure in, can they connect to a private 
provider? 

Cllr. G. Carthy left the meeting at this point. 

2. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1 

County Council Meeting 10th October, 2022  

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the Council 
resolved to confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 10th October, 
2022. 

2.1.1   Matters Arising 

There were no matters arising. 

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

3.1       Intention to dispose of land at Bishopswater, Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes, the Council 
resolved to dispose of land at Bishopswater, Wexford in accordance with the 
terms of the S. 183 Notice, as circulated. 

3.2       Intention to dispose of property at Knockrathkyle, Edermine, Co. Wexford.

 On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, the 
Council resolved to dispose of property at Knockrathkyle, Edermine, Co. 
Wexford in accordance with the terms of the S. 183 Notice, as circulated. 

3.3       Intention to lease a plot of land at Coolcotts Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, the Council 
resolved to lease a plot of land at Coolcotts Wexford in accordance with the 
terms of the S. 183 Notice, as circulated. 

4. 

Audited AFS 2021 & Audit Report 2021 

The Members noted the audited 2021 AFS and the 2021 audit report, which were 
circulated with the management response. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore, the Council resolved to 
adopt the audited 2021 AFS and the 2021 audit report. 

5. 

Housing Allocation Scheme 2023 

Ms. C. Godkin outlined the major changes contained in the Housing Allocation Scheme 
which was circulated to the Elected Members, and recommended adoption. 

Ms. C. Godkin responded to a wide range of queries from the Elected Members in regard 
to the following: 

•  Scope to reassess housing applicants who are excluded from the housing list due to 
the 52 week income rule but are not currently working due to illness/disability. 

•  Possibility of giving priority to front line workers through Part V properties. 
•  Possibility of giving downsizing transfers higher priority than 3rd. 
•  Priority to be given to applicants with long standing connections to the area. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan proposed the adoption the Housing Allocation Scheme and this was 
seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes.  

Cllr. G. Lawlor proposed the following amendment which was seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan 
and agreed by all and the Council resolved to adopt the Housing Allocation Scheme with 
the following amendment: 

Page 3 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Succession of tenancy only when the tenant dies, and the successor must be eligible for 
social housing and on the rent for 2 years. (Changed from 5 years) 

6. 

Scheme of Priority for Affordable Dwelling Purchase 

County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

Ms. C. Godkin outlined the main provisions of the affordable dwelling scheme and the 
reasons why the Council need to adopt a scheme. 

A number of the Elected Members raised concerns over the 70-30 split, where 30% of 
properties are reserved for applicants residing in the Municipal District or within 10km of 
the affordable property.  

Mr. T. Enright acknowledged the concerns of the Elected Members but also emphasised 
the importance of adopting a policy for submission to the Department. Mr. T. Enright 
proposed that the policy be adopted with a commitment to review it prior to any 
allocation. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Bolger, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Scheme of Priority for Affordable Dwelling Purchase with a commitment to 
review the scheme in February, 2023. 

Cllr. J. Owens left the meeting at this point. 

7.  

Culture & Creativity Strategy 2023 - 2027 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Culture & Creativity Strategy 2023 – 2027. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break and at this point. 

Cllr. J. O’Rourke and Cllr. C. Byrne left at this point. 

8.  

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members in regard to the following: 

•  Latest update on supports for flooding in Gorey. 
•  Council’s commitment to funding Esmonde St. regeneration after failed RRDF 

application. 

•  Timeframe for erosion prevention works in Rosslare. 
•  Ownership status of Dun Mhuire. 
•  Does Council have a plan for South Main St.? 
•  Need for more units to be added to derelict sites register in Wexford. 
•  Status of boiled water notice. 
•  Funding for Emigrant Park in New Ross. 
•  Timeframe for appointment of Town Centre Planner. 
• 

Issues in relation to NTA removing bus routes. 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

Issues in relation to title of old fire station in New Ross. 

• 
•  Update on backlog for pre-planning meetings. 
•  Timeframe for appointment of contractor for Enniscorthy Sports Hub. 
•  Renovation works for the old Council Chamber in the Market House, Gorey. 
•  Compliments to staff for response to flooding in north Wexford. 
•  Update on pyrite and testing of current suppliers. 
•  Timeframe for appointment of consultants to address odour issue in Ballyminaun. 

Cllr. J. Hegarty left at this point. 

•  Length of time taken by Eir to respond during recent wind events. 
•  Compensation for wind damage in Clongeen/Foulksmills. 
•  Coastal works in Grange, Fethard. 

Cllr. A. Browne left at this point. 

•  Congratulations to Age Friendly team for winning Tele Health award. 
•  Update on Loci report for Enniscorthy. 
•  Phase 2 active travel for Enniscorthy – Blackstoops. 
•  Update on improvements for water supply in Bunclody. 
•  Provision of housing in Enniscorthy. 
•  Congratulations on official opening of Wexford skate park. 
•  Status of 2 derelict houses in Wexford. 
•  Financial contributions from wind farms and quarries to roads? 
•  Speed ramps for some villages. 
•  Line marking on the New Line road. 
•  Safety concerns at junction of Ballylannon road and New Line road. 
•  Erection of flood barriers in Rosslare District. 

Cllr. B. Murphy left at this point. 

9. 

Minutes of CPG  

9.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 7th November, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell, the Council resolved 
to adopt the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 7th November, 2022. 

10.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

10.1    New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 14th September, 2022 
10.2    Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 21st September, 2022 

             10.3    Borough District of Wexford Meeting– 19th September, 2022 
             10.4    Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 19th September, 2022 
             10.5    Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 20th September, 2022 
             10.6    Transportation & Water Services SPC – 23rd June, 2022 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Minutes of the above meetings. 

County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

11. 

Correspondence and Communications 

11.1    Letter from Monaghan County Council re motion Citizens Assemblies dated 6th 
October, 2022. 
11.2    Letter from Fermanagh & Omagh District Council re: motion dated 10th October, 
2022. 
11.3    Letter from Donegal County Council re motion turf policy dated 20th October, 
2022. 
11.4    Letter from Offaly County Council re motion ambulance service dated 26th 
October, 2022. 
11.5    Letter from Cork County Council re: resolution on waste dated 24th October, 2022            
11.6    Email from Private Secretary to Minister for Communications, Climate Action and 
Environment, Eamon Ryan, TD dated 3rd November, 2022 

The Members noted the above correspondence items and expressed their appreciation for 
the responses received. 

12. 

Councillor’s Conference Reports 

12.1    Councillor Conference Reports 
Conference Report - Cllr. G. Laffan, - “A Practical guide to Budget 2023” held in 
Carlingford, Co. Louth 

Conference report - Cllr. F. Staples, - "A Practical guide to Budget 2023" held in 
Carlingford, Co. Louth.  

Wexford London Association Delegation Report – October 2022   

The Members noted the reports above, as circulated. 

13. 

Deferred Notices of Motion – Council Meeting 10th October, 2022 

13.1    Cllr. L. Kelly 

"The Cycle to Work scheme is only applicable where the bicycle and safety equipment is 
provided by an employer to either a director or someone in its employment. Thus, where 
an employer-employee relationship does not exist, for example, in the case of self-
employed individuals, students, retired individuals, job seekers or those in unpaid work, 
such individuals can’t qualify for the scheme. We ask the Minister of Finance to amend the 
current Cycle to Work scheme or create a new scheme which will include the above 
excluded individual/groups” 

Response of the Executive 

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Finance for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and carried. 
13.2    Cllr. T. Forde 

 "This council asks that Minister Darragh O Brien take stock of the current housing crisis in 
County Wexford and immediately declare the districts of the county a rent pressure zone." 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing Local Government and 
Heritage for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and carried. 

13.3    Cllr. J.  Sullivan 

“This council namely Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing Local 
Government and Heritage to extend the Defective Concrete Blocks Redress Scheme 
nationwide with immediate effect to automatically include all Counties in Ireland as the 
10% levy on concrete blocks, pouring concrete and other concrete products will apply 
nationwide and furthermore to include redress for houses whether complete or under the 
course of construction for concrete affected by Mica, Pyrite, Pyrrhotite, Alkali Silica 
Reaction or any other inappropriate aggregates or materials.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing Local Government and 
Heritage for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Sullivan with an amendment to a 5% levy, seconded by 
Cllr. M. Whelan and carried. 

13.4    Cllr. F.  Ó Súilleabháin 

"We ask that Wexford County Council explore purchasing properties for sale that are 
currently occupied with HAP tenancies." 

Response of the Executive: 

The Councils homeless unit reviews household circumstances when any homeless 
presentation is made.  In situations where the property is being placed for sale on the open 
market, the Council can seek approval from the Department to purchase the property 
where the housing needs of the household can be adequately met, the property is in good 
condition and the price is within purchase bands.   

The motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and carried. 

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

13.5    Cllr. D. Hynes  

“This council calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage to address 
the issue that has arising in many instances since the ‘Vision for Change’ 2006 was enacted, 
where people suffering from addiction are not admitted into psychiatric care and this has 
led to tragedy on a number of occasions.” 

For Information: 

A Vision For Change is a Department of Health policy which detailed a model of mental 
health service provision for Ireland.   

Response of the Executive: 

 If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Health for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and carried. 

 13.6    Cllr. T. Forde 

"We ask that Wexford County Council implement a 60 day homeless prevention plan for all 
those at risk of losing their homes or tenancies and also ask that Minister Darragh O'Brien 
provide any necessary resources to assist with the implementation of such a plan." 

Response of the Executive: 

The South East Regional Strategic Management Group has adopted a Regional Homeless 
Prevention & Support Project (RHPSP) which is being operated in all 5 LA’s in the region.  
The RHPSP prioritises homeless preventions by way of applying early interventions, 
mediation and prevention measures to those seeking homeless services/emergency 
accommodation. To ensure consistency in how the service is being provided across the 
region, the following steps are used by all staff that carry out homeless assessments and 
provide homeless supports. 

Conduct a homeless assessment and identify client’s immediate needs – “At Risk” following 
issue of NTQ - Provide support/advice to client re: validity of the notice and ensuring 
current social housing application information is up to date.  Clients that are “At risk” of 
homelessness do not have an immediate need for alternative accommodation and all 
relevant supports are offered to them i.e. early intervention, mediation with other relevant 
third parties e.g. family, landlords other agencies. 

Clients who present who are not social housing applicants receive immediate support with 
completing a social housing application.  These applications are processed by the 
HSSU/Placefinder and are prioritised over all other social housing applications. 

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

Clients will always be encouraged to try and source alternative private rented 
accommodation and are issued with up to date HAP forms.  This does not mean that the 
HSSU are not also working to find a solution to meet the applicant’s needs.  The HSSU, 
utilise social housing allocations, Housing First tenancies, licenced properties and main 
stream HAP tenancies to provide social housing supports. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin and carried. 

13.7    Cllr. F.  Ó Súilleabháin 

"This council asks that Minister Darragh O'Brien reintroduce a temporary ban on evictions 
in the private market to protect vulnerable renters who abide by their tenancy agreements 
and to ensure they keep a roof over their head and to review this policy on a yearly basis." 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing Local Government and 
Heritage for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and carried. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny and agreed by all, the 
Council agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue to 6pm. 

13.8    Cllr. D. Hynes  

 “I ask the minister for local government to bring in. Legislation to rectify the situation 
where a whole section of society is excluded from running in council elections due to the 
fact that working class people who work in Factories, shops etc are unable to run for this 
council because employers won’t allow. Employees the time off to. Attend. Meetings etc , “ 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing Local Government and 
Heritage for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin. 

Cllr. A. Bolger proposed the following amendment and this was seconded by Cllr. M. 
Sheehan: 

I ask the Minister for Local Government to put attending statutory meetings required by 
the Local Government Act on a statutory footing to rectify the situation where a whole 
section of society is excluded from running in Council elections due to the fact that people 
who are employed in many different sectors are prevented from running for this Council 
because employers won’t allow employees the time off to attend meetings etc. 

The amended motion was carried on a majority show of hands. 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
County Council Meeting 14.11.22 

Cllr. D. Devereux left at this point. 

14. 

Notices of Motion 

14.1 Cllr. B. Murphy 

"That this Council writes to the Minister for Housing, requesting that 
the minimum grant funding offered under the Croí Cónaithe Fund launched in 2022 be 
doubled. This would mean €30,000 increases to €60,000 for the renovation of vacant 
properties, and €50,000 increases to €100,000 for the refurbishment of derelict properties. 
This increase in the grant available would reflect the recent rise in the cost of building". 

Response of the Executive:  

If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing for consideration.  

As Cllr. B. Murphy was absent, this motion wasn’t taken. 

14.2 Cllr. L. McDonald and Cllr. B.A. Murphy 

“Wexford County council calls upon the government to create and implement a national 
domestic violence register as a further measure to assist in the fight against domestic 
violence in Ireland” 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Justice for consideration 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and carried. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Nollag, 2022. 

________________________  
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 10 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
