County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 12 July 2021 (via MS TEAMS) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. B. A. Murphy Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MCDONALD 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

LISA 

JIM 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

STAPLES 

 FRANK 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services and Deputy Chief Executive 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. A McLoughlin, A/ County Secretary 
Mr. D. Houston, Senior Planner 

Public:  

Several members of the public and media attended remotely 

Oireachtas:  Ms. V. Murphy, T.D. 

Seamus Davitt, Parliamentary Assistant to Mr. J Mythen, T.D. 

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

Apologies: 

Cllr. Bridin Murphy 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

•  Mr.  Thomas (Mosie) Murphy, Taghmon 
•  Mrs. Mary Lyng, The Rower, Aunt of Cllr John Fleming 
•  Mr. Pat Lyng, Newtown, New Ross  
•  Mr. Gerry Cash, Hewittsland, New Ross 
•  Mrs. Josephine (Josie) Doyle, Ballinvegga, New Ross 
•  Mrs. Elizabeth (Betty) Cummins, Ballintubber, New Ross  
•  Mr. Joseph Kinsella, Carrigeen Street, Wexford 
•  Mr. Oliver (Ollie) Gaynor, Barn town, Wexford 
•  Mr. Henry (Sonny) O’Leary, Castlebridge, Wexford 
•  Mr. Billy Fox, Glynn, Wexford  
•  Mrs. Elizabeth Byrne, Enniscorthy 
•  Ms. Shelia Purcell, Castletown, Gorey 
•  Mrs. Carmel Donnelly (née Earle), Enniscorthy 
•  Mrs. Elizabeth (Betty) Nolan, Adamstown, New Ross 
•  The Ryan Family, Enniscorthy 

Votes of Congratulations: 

The Council expressed their congratulations to: 

•  Relay for Life Team  
•  Katie Law of Wexford Youths 
•  Sophie Becker on being selected for the Tokyo Olympics 
•  The Organisers of the Summer Sessions New Ross Library Park 
•  The opening of the Garden of Remembrance and Reflection in Murrintown to commemorate 

the centenary of signing the truce. 

•  Barry Lacey as the first Historian in Residence with Wexford Library and Archive Service. All 

involved in the High Hill project which has commenced in New Ross 
•  Barry Redmond, Referee for 2nd Division Ladies football league final 
•  Paul Boyle in his first International Rugby Debut. 
•  Kevin Cogley, Wexford  

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 14th June 2021 

1.2 Special County Council Meeting – 14th June 2021 

1.3 Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 28th June 2021 

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

On the proposal of Cllr. J O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. G Carthy and agreed by all the Council 
resolved to adopt the above Minutes. 

Matters Arising 

Cllr Ger Carthy proposed that the September Council Meeting be held in person, this was 
seconded by Cllr Garry Laffan and was agreed by all. It was further noted that the remote facility 
would also still be available for those who preferred to attend virtually. The Chief Executive 
advised the meeting that a new Audio-Visual System was being installed in the Council Chamber to 
facilitate this hybrid style model going forward. 

2. 

 Local Property Tax 2022 - Local Variation Factor Decision 

The Head of Finance advised the meeting that she was seeking approval for a 10% increase on the 
base rate for LPT in 2022 which is the same level that it has been retained at since 2018. The Chief 
Executive  informed  the  members  of  the  importance  of  this  funding  to  progress  the  Councils 
Economic and Community development Programme.  

Proposal:  Cllr  Michael  Whelan  proposed  the  increase  of  10%  and  this  was  seconded  by  Cllr  Ger 
Carthy.  

Counter Proposal: Cllr Tom Forde proposed not to accept the 10% increase which was seconded by 
Cllr J Owens. 

A number of Councillors spoke on the two proposals.  

A vote was taken on the proposal to not increase the LPT for 2022. The voting result was as follows: 
26 Against, 4 For, 1 Abstain and 3 absent at the time of the vote. 

BARDEN 

PAT 

Monthly Meeting of WCC 12th July 2021 – Motions Against 10% Increase in LPT for 2022 
BARBARA-
ANNE 
BRIDIN 
JOHN 

A  MURPHY 

FARRELL 

MARY 

A 

MAURA 
ANDREW 
PIP 
AIDAN 
CATHAL 
GER 
JIM 

JOHN 
FLEMING 
A 
TOM 
FORDE 
A 
JOHN 
A  HEGARTY 
A  HYNES 
DAVID 
A   KAVANAGH  WILLIE 
A  KELLY 
F  KENNY 

BELL 
BOLGER 
BREEN 
BROWNE 
BYRNE 
CARTHY 
CODD 
CODD-
NOLAN 
CONNICK 
DEVEREUX  DIARMUID  A  MCDONALD  LISA 
JIM 
DONOHOE  ANTHONY  A  MOORE 

KATHLEEN  AB  LAFFAN 

ANTHONY  A 

LAWLOR 

GARY 

GEORGE 

LEONARD 
DONAL 

A  MURPHY 
F  O’ROURKE 
A  O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 
A  OWENS 
A 
A 
A 

JACKSER 
MICHAEL 
 FRANK 
JOE 

SHEEHAN 
STAPLES 
SULLIVAN 

A  WALSH 

OLIVER 

A  WHELAN 
A 
A  

MICHAEL 

A 

AB 
A 
F 
F 
A 
A  
ABS 

A  

AB 

F = For, A = Against, AB/S = Absent /Abstain 

Page 3 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

This counter proposal was defeated and the original proposal of increasing the LPT by 10% of the 
base year for 2022 was therefore deemed carried.  

3. Draft Wexford County Council (Wexford Borough District) Traffic and Parking Bye Laws 2021 

The final draft of the Wexford Borough District Traffic and Parking Bye Laws were circulated to the 
members for approval.  On the proposal of Cllr G Laffan seconded by Cllr M Bell the Bye laws were 
unanimously approved. 

 4. Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning 
and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended). 

4.1 LAC2102 - Proposed erection of 20 No. two storey semi-detached dwellings together with all 
associated site works at Ramsfort Park, Gorey, Co.   Wexford. 

This proposal was approved by the members on the proposal of Cllr J Sullivan, seconded by Cllr M 
Bell.  

4.2 LAC2103 – Development of a 12 Unit Residential Women’s Refuge Building with associated 
social, communal, amenity and support spaces. A single 3 storey detached block with defined road 
and garden boundaries, storage, and service areas at The Rocks, Maudlintown, Wexford town. 

This proposal was approved by the members on the proposal of Cllr G Lawlor, seconded by Cllr J 
Hegarty.  

5. Briefing on the Draft County Development Plan 2021 - 2027 

Mr. T Larkin, Director of Services advised the meeting that Section 2 of the Planning and 
Development (Amendment) Bill 2021 provides for a further period of up to one year for review off 
County Development Plans due to the extenuating circumstances with Covid.  However, he noted 
that this was not yet enacted. 

On the proposal of Cllr Pip Breen and seconded by Cllr J Hegarty it was agreed to proceed with the 
review of the Development Plan at the point. 

It was further proposed by Cllr G Lawlor and seconded by Cllr M Sheehan that a meeting be held in 
person of the council as soon as convenient to progress this. A date of Monday 6th September was 
agreed for this meeting to be held “in person”.  

6. Chief Executive's Report  

The Chief Executive and Members of the Management Team responded to a range of queries from 
the elected members, including the following: 

o  Wexford Campus IT Carlow  
o  Crescent Quay Dredging and Assessment 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

Irish Water Additional Costs – Ballagh Housing Estate 

o  Traveller Accommodation at Park 
o  Approved Housing Bodies – Estate rules 
o  Active Travel Engineer – Recruitment 
o  Street Lighting Allocation 
o  Tourism Office on the Quay, Wexford 
o  Water Supply issues at Castlebridge 
o  Wexford to Curracloe Greenway 
o 
o  HAP units in County Wexford – Offered by other Local Authorities 
o  Affordable Housing Survey  
o  Community Playground Insurance  
o  Motorhome applications 
o  Work on Vacant Houses 
o  Safety Issues in AHB estates at Drinagh and Fortunes Fields  
o  MARA Maritime Area Regulatory Authority office’s location in County Wexford. 
o  Toilets at Carrigfoyle 
o  Millhaven Castlebridge  
o  Public Toilets Enniscorthy 
o 
o  Outdoor Street Furniture Applications 
o  Lights on Old ring road N25 
o  Vinegar Hill Access  

IDA New Ross 

In relation to the issue with certification and insurance for Community Playgrounds Cllr Codd- 
Nolan noted that she would be bringing a motion to the next Council meeting proposing to write 
to Minister Séan Fleming in relation to issues that have arisen in this area. 

In relation to the Affordable Housing Survey results Ms. C Godkin, Director of Services agreed to 
prepare a report for the members on this. 

Cllr Codd Nolan left the meeting at this point. 

7. Minutes of CPG  

7.1  Minutes of CPG of 5th July 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. J Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, and agreed by all, the Council 
resolved to adopt the above Minutes 

8. Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

The Council noted the following Minutes: 

8.1 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 12.05.2021   
8.2 Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 17.05.2021 
8.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 17.05.2021 
8.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 17.05.2021 
8.5 Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 18.05.2021 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

9.  

Correspondence & Communications 

9.1 Letter from Carrickmacross – Castleblayney Municipal District dated 8th June 2021. 
9.2 Letter from Minister for Social Protection, Heather Humphreys TD dated 9th June 2021. 
9.3 Letter from Mr. Darragh O’Brien, Minister for Housing, Local Government & Heritage 
re:  Shared Equity Scheme dated 15th June 2021. 
9.4 Letter from Mayo County Council re: carers allowance dated 15th June 2021. 
9.5   Letter from Meath County Council re: 2 motions dated 24th June 2021. 
9.6   Letter from Clare County Council re: 2 motions dated 28th June 2021. 
9.7 Email from Niamh Collins Private Secretary to the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform 
re: supporting motion from Sligo County Council dated 28th June 2021. 
9.8 Letter from Kerry County Council re motion dated 28th June 2021. 
9.9 Letter from Sligo County Council re motion dated 29th June 2021. 
9.10   Email from Conor Madden, Private Secretary to Minister of State Peter Burke 
re: Development Plan Process dated 30th June 2021. 
9.11 Letters from Donegal County Council re: 3 motions dated 30th June 2021. 
9.12 Email from Miriam Rooney, Private Secretary to the Minister for Health re: acknowledgment 
dated 1st July 2021. 
9.13   Letter from Niamh Redmond, Private Secretary to Mr. Darragh O’Brien, TD re: Working 
Family Payment dated 1st July 2021. 

Cllr Forde noted that much of the responses to correspondence sent by the council were 
statements of what was already known. 

10. Deferred Notices of Motion from Council Meeting 10th May 2021 

10.1 Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

Procurement 

That Wexford County Council notes the long overrun in the completion period for some of our 
major projects, as well as the high overspend for some of our projects in comparison to the 
original projected cost. 

As a solution, this council will: 

(a) endeavour to insert a Sunset-type clause to tie developers to an agreed completion date on 
projects and (b) that we will insert a Social Inclusion Contract to ensure a higher percentage of 
local labour get employed and (c) that we will look at the model of Community Wealth Building as 
introduced in some local authority areas abroad. (CWB seeks to leverage existing local and 
regional resources to provide workers, families, and communities with greater control over their 
own economic development and ensure money is kept in the local economy) 

As an example, in Co. Wexford this could entail the breaking down of a contract into smaller parts 
i.e., on Gorey Town Park project, one local company could be employed to do the soft 
landscaping: another the hard surface works and another the building works, playground etc. 

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

This alternative model is more beneficial to the local economy and local businesses than the 
current e-tendering model which would appear to favour a single larger company. 

On the proposal of Cllr T Forde and seconded by Cllr J Codd this motion was passed by the 
Council. 

The Chief Executive did note that there may be some conditions of contract law in Irish Contract 
Law that may restrict this, and it was agreed that the Executive would investigate this further. 

Suspension of Standing Orders 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty and agreed by all, the Council 
resolved to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue until 6.00pm. 

10.2 Cllr. G. Carthy 

“That we the Members of Wexford County Council request that the Minister for the Environment, 
Climate and Communications and Transport, Mr. Eamonn Ryan TD prioritises the planning, design 
and construction of the N24 Waterford to Limerick Corridor Road project within the Review of the 
National Development Plan. This project is critical to the development of the South East region 
and to the achievement of national targets on addressing regional imbalance by connecting the 
cities of Waterford and Limerick, the South East, South West and Mid-West Regions, Rosslare 
Europort, the Port of Waterford, and existing strategic transport corridors including the M7(Dublin 
– Limerick), M8 (Dublin- Cork) and M9 (Dublin-Carlow-Kilkenny-Waterford) motorways. It is 
further requested that this Notion of Motion be sent to the Minister for Finance, Mr Paschal 
Donoghue TD and Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform, Mr. Michael McGrath TD. “ 

As Cllr Carthy had left the meeting it was agreed to defer this motion to the September meeting.  

10.3 Cllr. F. O Súilleabháin 

“Wexford County Council should examine the Community Wealth Building model with a view to 
incorporating it into their Local Economic Community Plans (LECP). 

Community Wealth Building has emerged as a powerful approach to local economic development 
and has been particularly successful in Preston, England, North Ayrshire, Scotland and Cleveland, 
United States. 

The model will allow counties to leverage existing resources, such as procurement, to meet local 
needs while creating quality employment and promoting equity and sustainability. 

This Council will initiate dialogue with local public bodies and semi-state companies in the locality 
regarding their potential role in the strategy. 

That we will bring local businesses, enterprises, and community activists into the discussion 
around developing the project. 

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

That we also engage with councils in Preston, North Ayrshire and elsewhere which have 
successfully developed this model.” 

(A number of councils have already passed this motion.) 

On the proposal of Cllr F O Súilleabháin and seconded by Cllr T Forde this motion was passed by 
the Council. 

Cllr L. Kelly left the meeting at this point. 

10.4 Cllr. G. Carthy 

“That this Council calls on the Government in the light of Brexit and other market influences to 
recognise the strategic value of the South-East Ports in Rosslare and Belview, Waterford through 

•  Strategic investment in the Ports, in particular through the purchase of additional land for 
the expansion of Rosslare Europort and the advance construction of Rosslare Europort 
Harbour Access Road. 

•  Amalgamation of the ports structure and governance to create a Tier 1 port as a combined 

entity. 

•  Designation of the combined entity as the service port for offshore renewables in The Irish 

and Celtic Seas. “ 

As Cllr Carthy had left the meeting it was agreed to defer this motion to the September meeting.  

10.5 Received from Cllr John Fleming Referred from Housing SPC 

“When a Councillor makes a representation on behalf of a client on the housing list, the Councillor 
is then to be informed/updated and included in all correspondence between the County Council 
and the client.”  

On the proposal of Cllr J Fleming and seconded by Cllr A Browne this motion was passed by the 
Council. 

The Director of Service Ms. Carolyne Godkin noted that it would be difficult to include members 
on all documentation, she would commit to the member representation a client being updated 
once an allocation was made.  

10.6 Cllr. T. Forde 

"The local authority sector is obliged to bring all social housing stock up to a building energy rating 
of minimum B1 by 2030, as committed across a range of national and EU policies. As Wexford will 
struggle to achieve this ambitious target, I ask that this council write to the relevant Minister 
seeking sufficient funding to meet this obligation." 

On the proposal of Cllr T Forde and seconded by Cllr G Lawlor this motion was passed by the 
Council. 

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

10.7 Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

“This council notes that a large portion of our county’s secondary roads are in need of "total 
reconstruction".  

It further notes that a recent assessment estimated that Co. Wexford needs 196 million euro in 
funding to bring our secondary roads up to what would be deemed a "reasonable standard."  

That we now enlist the support of all 5 TDs this month in writing to the Department to ask what 
plans they have to properly address this crisis as a matter of urgency" 

On the proposal of Cllr F O Súilleabháin and seconded by Cllr P Barden this motion was passed by 
the Council. 

10.8 Cllrs. Barbara Anne Murphy, Michael Sheehan, Pip Breen, Joe Sullivan, John Fleming, 
Michael Whelan, Lisa McDonald, Willie Kavanagh, Donal Kenny, Aidan Browne, Garry Laffan, 
Andrew Bolger 

“That all District & Borough monthly meetings be held in person going forward, including this 
month’s meetings.” 

This proposal was agreed unanimously.  

11. Notices of Motions 

Cllr. D. Hynes 

11.1“This council is calling on the HSE to give the temporary workers involved in the COVID 19 
Vaccination Centre in Enniscorthy, full-time employment as a measure of appreciation to these 
people. Each one of these people have worked on the front line along with the doctors and nurses, 
often doing 12-hour shifts in order to get as many as possible of our people vaccinated in this time 
of national emergency and deserve nothing less.” 

On the proposal of Cllr D Hynes and seconded by Cllr T Forde this motion was passed by the 
Council. 

Cllr. T. Forde 

11.2 "I ask that this council seek to develop "rainbow walks" in support of Pride awareness, at 
different junctions/crossing points across the districts." 

On the proposal of Cllr T Forde and seconded by Cllr C Byrne this motion was passed by the 
Council. 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.07.21 

Cllr. D. Hynes 

11.3 “This council calls on the Minister for Health to provide funding and reactivate the START 
Housing program which was operated jointly by the Council and Threshold. At a time when 
people’s mental health is under pressure as never before in these unprecedented times, it is 
essential that people suffering from long term mental health issues be given support and 
accommodation as soon as possible and not be handed a HAP form and asked to fend for 
themselves.” 

On the proposal of Cllr D Hynes and seconded by Cllr G Lawlor this motion was passed by the 
Council. 

12. Any Other Business 

Cllr G Laffan raised the issue of the new road layout at Ferrycarraig.  
Cllr J Codd raised an issue regarding the Pedestrian Crossing in Wellington Bridge 

Daingithe ar an           lá de Meán Fomhair, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
David Minogue,  
County Secretary 

Page 10 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
