County Council Meeting 11.09.23 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council held on Monday 11th September, 2023 

in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Farrell 

Mary 

Murphy 

Bell 

Maura  

Forde  

Tom 

Murphy 

Bolger 

Andrew  

Hegarty  

John  

O’Rourke 

Barbara-
Anne 
(online) 
Bridin 
(online) 
John 

Browne 

Aidan  

Hynes 

David 

O’Súilleabháin 

Fionntáin 

Byrne 

Cathal 

Kavanagh 

Willie 

Owens 

Carthy 

Codd 

Ger 

Jim 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Sheehan 

Kenny 

Donal 

Staples 

Codd-Nolan 

Kathleen 

Laffan 

Sullivan 

Jackser  
(online) 
Michael 

Frank  
(online) 
Joe 

Connick 

Devereux 

Anthony 
(online) 
Diarmuid 

Lawlor  

Walsh 

Oliver 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Whelan 

Michael 

Garry 
(online) 
George 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

Moore 

Jim 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. E.  Hore, Director of Service  
Ms. L.  Lacey, A/ Head of Finance 
Mr. M. Drea, A/Director of Service 
Ms. E. Hore, Director of Service 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Service 
Mr. S. Meyler, A/Director of Service 
Ms. S. Doran, A/County Secretary  

1. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.23 

Apologies: 

Cllr. Pip Breen 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

The family of Eleanor Kelly (née Fortune), sister of Gary Fortune, Water Services, New Ross District. 
The family of James (Jim) O’Mahony, father to Lindy Codd, Finance, grandfather to Jodie Codd, GP, 
and uncle to Rory O’Mahony, Environment. 
The family of Josephine Mullen (née Barron), Mother-in – Law of Cliona Connolly. 
The family of Jack Egan, son of Anna-Marie Colfer, Finance Department. 
The family of Nancy O’Connor, mother of Joan O’Connor, IT Department. 
The family of Very Reverend Canon Felix Byrne, Monaseed, Gorey, Co. Wexford. 
The family of Paul and Mary O’Reilly, Kilmore. 
The family of Tom Cantwell, former Garda. 
The family of Eileen Murphy, Corish Park, Wexford.  
The family of David O’Hara, John Street Flats, Wexford. 
The family of Mary Whelan Junior, Adamstown, Wexford. 
The family of John Doyle, Ballindinas, Barntown, Wexford. 
The Hennessey, Dunne, Dalton and Cashin families of New Ross.  

Congratulations: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the congratulations of the Council to: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Tadhg Furlong and the Irish Rugby Team in the World Cup. 
Organiser’s of the Kennedy Summer School 
Organiser’s of the Guitar and Piano Festivals, New Ross. 
Organiser’s of the Rockin’ Food Festival, Enniscorthy. 
Organiser’s of the the Wexford Rose of Tralee Tour and Wexford Rose Bronagh Hogan. 
Festy Ebosele on his International debut for the Republic of Ireland soccer team.  

1. 

Confirmation  of Minutes: 

1.1  

County Council Meeting 10th July, 2023 

On the Proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes the Council  resolved to confirm the 
Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 10th July, 2023.  

1.2   Matters Arising 

Cllr. G. Lawlor raised issue of progress on SETU Campus. Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive advised that 
he has sought a meeting with the President of the University regarding master planning and planning 
permission to proceed so the first phase of the campus can be in place as soon as possible with a full 
range of facilities. 

2. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.23 

Cllr. Ger Carthy sought an update on the Rosslare harbour access road. Mr. T. Enright gave an update 
in relation to the CPO and the planning application which is with An Bord Pleanála.   

Cllr. L. Kelly queried the impact of the recent announcement on national reduced speed limits and 
how it will affect the review of speed limits locally by the Council. Mr. E. Hore advised that guidance 
is being sought from the Department but indicated that should the legislation be passed, it will have 
a huge impact in terms of work, resources, and cost. 

2. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning and 
Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

2.1       LAC2301  - Demolition of derelict dwelling and proposed construction of 5 dwelling units at 

Ballygillane Big, St Helens, Rosslare, Co. Wexford. 

2.2       LAC2302 - Provide a public realm space at Bellefield Road, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

2.3       LAC2304 - Demolition of derelict property and construction of 2 no. social housing units at 20 

Francis Street, Wexford. 

2.4       LAC2306 - Refurbishment of existing building on the site and erection of two extended sections 

at Former Bank of Ireland, St. Martins Road, Rosslare Harbour, Co. Wexford 

Having considered the reports of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by 
Cllr. L. McDonald the Council resolved to confirm approval for the four planning applications, as out-
lined. 

3. 

Budget 2024 

a. Local Property Tax - local adjustment factor 2024 (LAF) 

b. Local Property Tax - provisional allocation 2024 

c. Budget Meetings 2024 - Prescribed periods 

d. Proposed schedule of Dates 

Ms. L. Lacey advised the Council on matters in relation to Budget 2024 preparation and prescribed 
periods for meetings in relation to same. 

Meeting 

Proposed Date 

Budget Strategy Meeting – Cross 
Council Group 

Monday 2nd October at 2.30pm 

Decision on Local Adjustment Fac-
tor for LPT 2024 

Not required for 2024 Budget as LAF 
set for 2 years during 2023 process. 

Draft Budgetary Plan Meeting with 
Municipal Districts 

October MD Meetings** 

Statutory Budget Meeting 

Monday 4th December at 10.00am 

** As NRMD October meeting is outside the statutory period a change of 
date for the meeting will be proposed 

3. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.23 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy the Council resolved to approve the 
schedule of dates, as outlined.     

4. 

 Invitation to Wexford County Council to attend KIMO AGM in Sweden 

Ms. C. Godkin advised that KIMO’s International AGM is being held in Falkenberg, Sweden on the 4th 
to 6th October 2023 and as a member of KIMO Wexford County Council has been invited to attend. 

Cllr. Jim Moore is Wexford County Council’s representative and his attendance along with an official 
was recommended by the SPC. 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh and seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell the Council resolved to accept the 
invitation and send representation, as outlined. 

5. 

Replacement of the Wexford Council of Trade Unions and appointment to the Local Community 
Development Committee (L.C.D.C.) 

Ms.  C.  Godkin  recommended  Sean  Joyce,  Wexford  Council  of  Trade  Unions  be  appointed  by  the 
Elected Members of Wexford County Council to the L.C.D.C. 

On the proposal of Cllr. D. Hynes and seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke, the Council resolved to approve 
Mr. Joyce’s appointment. 

6. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Cathaoirleach requested that Members be direct and ask questions rather than make general 
statements to ensure the business of the meeting would be dealt with in a timely, efficient manner. 
All Elected Members agreed. 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of queries 
from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Oylegate to Rosslare Harbour Motorway Update 
•  Potential housing of International Protection applicants in Rosslare Harbour. 
•  RTB Inspections and enforcement. 
•  Fire Service Industrial Action. 
•  Fórsa Industrial Action. 
•  Fleadh Cheoil and provision of sites for motor homes.  
•  Communication around Fleadh Cheoil and delegations. 
•  Update on status of Waterford Airport. 
•  Update sought on services at Beachview, Cois Cuan, Glynn and Ramsgrange developments. 
•  Update sought on Ballycarney Junction on the N80. 
•  Request that TII examine Clohamon junction. 
•  Update sought on St. Theresa’s B&B Gorey and its potential use for International Protection 

applicants.   

•  Update sought on proposal for schools on recently cpo’d site and request for provision of sports 

facilities. 

•  Query if performance space at Oyster Lane, Wexford will replace what was in the Dun Mhuire. 
•  Update sought on Mechanics’ Institute, Wexford. 
•  Timeline for works on the Murphy Floods site. 

4. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.23 

•  Timeline for completion of road works in Enniscorthy. 
•  Timeline for completion of works on Wilton bridge. 
•  Source of funding for development of Esmonde Street, Gorey. 
•  Appreciation for provision of lighting in Skate Park, Wexford. 
•  Concerns raised over lack of consultation in relation to sites for refugees. 
•  Concerns raised in relation to erratic use of electric bikes and scooters in urban areas. 
•  Request for training space for local band. 
•  Concerns raised in relation to road reinstatement after work on solar farms. Road at Forth Celtic 

needs to be addressed. 

Issue of chronic shortage of school bus drivers raised. 

•  Request for consultation in relation to line markings for bus stops following work in Taghmon. 
• 
•  Query if emergency accommodation will be put in place for winter in addition to Ozanam House. 
•  Request that media and Members be mindful of language used when speaking about refugees. 
•  Request that additional resources be put in place for the Croí Conaithe Grants Scheme. 

Cllr. J. Fleming, Cathaoirleach recused himself from the meeting before the next item was discussed 
after declaring a potential conflict of interest. Cllr. G. Carthy as Leas Cathaoirleach assumed the 
position. 

•  Clarity on planning permission requirements and zoning considering ABP refusal of large-scale 

residential development at Crosstown.     

Cllr. Fleming resumed his position as Cathaoirleach. 

•  Oylegate to Rosslare Road and implications for people looking to get planning permission, 

certainty required. 

•  Request for update in relation to ongoing issue with smell in Ballyminaun, Gorey. 
•  Next steps for property affected by mica and homeowners ability to access redress scheme. 
•  Concerns raised in relation to the use of St. Theresa’s B&B, Gorey as refugee accommodation. 
•  Need to cut overgrown hedging on country roads as signs are being obscured. 
•  Allocation of funding to acquire derelict properties. 
•  Update sought on Skate Park and John Street Enterprise Centre, New Ross 
•  Request for an affordable housing scheme for other districts similar to Gorey. 
•  Request for additional emergency accommodation in Gorey. 
•  Request for camper van site for Gorey District. 
•  Request that fly tipping around the county be tackled. 
•  Update sought on land swop on Milehouse Road, Enniscorthy. 
•  Request for funding for footpaths in villages to be provided in the budget. 
•  Request for update on Wexford to Rosslare greenway.   
•  Staff Resources in Special Projects   

7.  Minutes of CPG Meeting 4th September 2023. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald, the Council resolved to adopt the 
Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 4th September 2023. 

5. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.23 

8.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

8.1       New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 14th June, 2023 

8.2       New Ross Municipal District Annual Meeting 28th June 202 

8.3      Rosslare Municipal District Meeting –21st June, 2023 

8.4       Rosslare Municipal District Annual Meeting 30th June, 2023 

8.5      Borough District of Wexford Meeting– 19th June, 2023 

8.6       Borough District of Wexford Annual Meeting– 26th June, 2023 

8.7      Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 19th June, 2023 

8.8       Enniscorthy Municipal District Annual Meeting 26th June, 2023 

8.9       Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 20th June, 2023 

8.10    Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Annual Meeting – 20th June, 2023 

8.11    Transportation & Water Services Strategic Policy Committee Meeting 3rd November, 2022 

The Members noted the above correspondence.  

9. 

Correspondence and Communications 

9.1      Letter from South Dublin County Council re motion dated 12th June, 2023 

9.2       Letters from Cork County Council re resolution dated 5th July, 2023 

9.3       Letter from Leitrim County Council re: resolution dated 7th July, 2023 

9.4       Letter from Clare County Council re: resolution dated 11th July, 2023           

9.5       Letter from Department of Social Protection re weather events November 2022 

 dated 19th    July, 2023 

9.6       Email from Office of the CEO, HSE re motion dated 25th July, 2023 

9.7       Letter from Cork County Council re motion dated 25th July, 2023 

9.8       Email from Private Secretary to the Minister for Public Expenditure NDP Delivery and   

Reform re motion dated 14th July, 2023 

9.9       Letter from Waterford City & County Council re motion dated 27th July, 2023 

9.10    Email from Minister Darragh O'Brien’s Office re motion dated 4th September, 2023 

The Members noted the above correspondence. 

10. 

Councillor’s Conferences and Training 

10.1    List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

10.2    Councillor's Conference Reports: 

•  Cllr. F. O Súilleabháin - The Finance Act January 2023 

•  Cllr. F. O Súilleabháin - The Suck Valley Way April 2023 

6. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.23 

The Members noted the reports above, as circulated. 

11.  Notices of Motion  

11.1 Cllr. D. Hynes  

“This council calls on the Minister for Justice for a reversal of the decision that the Gardai in Wex-
ford are to introduce new rostering that will result in cutbacks to the Drugs Unit and to community 
gardai. The decision is completely at odds with the massive increase in illegal drugs use and anti-
social behaviour in Wexford. This decision can only make a bad situation worse.”  

Executive Response: 
If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Garda Commissioner, for consideration. 

Cllr. M. Whelan proposed an amendment replacing “Minister for Justice” with “Garda Commis-
sioner”. The amendment was agreed by all. 

The following amended motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and car-
ried. 

“This council calls on the Garda Commissioner for a reversal of the decision that the Gardai in Wex-
ford are to introduce new rostering that will result in cutbacks to the Drugs Unit and to community 
gardai. The decision is completely at odds with the massive increase in illegal drugs use and anti-
social behaviour in Wexford. This decision can only make a bad situation worse.”  

11.2 Cllr. T. Forde 

"This council asks that Minister Darragh O Brien take stock of the latest increases in rents and the 
current housing crisis in County Wexford and immediately declare the districts of the county a rent 
pressure zone". 

Executive Response: 
If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing, Local Government & Heritage,  
for consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. F.O’ Súilleabháin and carried. 

11.3 Cllr. L. Kelly 

“Wexford County Council commit to working with SETU to build quality, affordable accommodation 
for students which will be available for students. A not-for-profit model, which will endeavour to keep 
costs for students at a minimum. Such accommodation could be used for profit (tourism) outside of 
student term times, e.g., Summer Season)" 

Executive Response: 
Wexford  County Council  is  committed  to  working  with  SETU to deliver  a  high-quality campus  and 
ancillary facilities. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and carried.  

Cllr. D. Hynes recused himself at this stage of the meeting after declaring a potential conflict of inter-
est regarding the next motion. 

7. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.09.23 

11.4 Cllr. T. Forde 

“This Council calls on the minister Mary Butler with responsibility for Mental Health etc to ensure 
that  ‘Its  Good  2  Talk,  a vital  counselling  service in  Wexford town  (which  serves  many parts  of  the 
county) receives the promised funding of €130,000 promised in 2014. This service started in 2012 is 
struggling to  continue  to provide  low-cost  counselling  for  clients suffering from  a  range  of  mental 
health issues such as anxiety, depression, addiction issues.  

Executive Response: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the  Minister of State at the Department of Health, for 
consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F.O’ Súilleabháin and carried. 

After this motion was carried Cllr. D. Hynes rejoined the meeting. 

12.  Any Other Business. 

Invitation to London Wexford Association Towns Reunion Buffet Dance on 21st October 2023.   

On the proposal of  Cllr. O.  Walsh  and  seconded by Cllr. M.  Bell the  Council  resolved  to  accept  an 
invitation and send representation as outlined. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an           

lá de Deireadh Fomhair, 2023. 

________________________ 

________________________ 

Cllr. John Fleming  

Cathaoirleach 

Michael Drea  

County Secretary 

8. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
