County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 10 April, 2017 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. P. Kavanagh, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien; 
J. Sullivan; 
J. O’Rourke;   

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton; 
B.A .Murphy,  
O. O’Connell; 
D. Wadding;   
F. Staples 

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe,   
J. Fleming  
W. Kavanagh; 
M. Murphy; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Sheehan;  
O. Walsh; 

K. Codd-Nolan,   
K. Doyle, 
J. Hegarty,  
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen; 

M. Whelan. 

M. T. Larkin, Deputy Chief Executive 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary; 

Apologies:   

Councillors 
Officials: 

M. Roche; A. Kelly; G. Lawlor; 
Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. Pat Collins, County Secretary 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their votes of sympathy to the following: 

  The  family  of  former  Councillor  Fergie  Kehoe,  on  the  occasion  of  the  first 

anniversary of his death 

  The family of the late Mr. Aidan Cummins, Carrig-on-Bannow 
  The family of the late Mr. John Kennedy, Coolgreaney 
  The  family  of  the  late  Mrs.  Teresa  Ward,  mother  of  Council  employee  Ms.  Anita 

Ryan 

Congratulations 

The Members expressed their congratulations to the following: 

  All  those  involved  in  the  organisation  of  the  recent  very  successful  Garda  Youth 

Awards 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1  

Ordinary Meeting of 13th March, 2017. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  M.  Sheehan,  seconded  by  Councillor  T. 
Dempsey  the  Council  approved  the  minutes  of  the  County  Council  Meeting 
held on 13thMarch, 2017.  

1.2  

Matters Arising: 

1.2.1  Roads Funding 

Councillor J. Hegarty complimented Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services, 
on his recent report to the Council regarding Wexford’s road network.  

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  Hegarty,  seconded  by  Councillor 
Barbara  Anne  Murphy,  the  Council  agreed  that  based  on  Mr.  Hore’s 
report, a submission be sent to the Department of Transport, Tourism 
and Sport, seeking an increase in funding for Wexford’s road network.  

2.  Part XI  of  the Planning and Development  Act, 2000  (as  amended) and Part 8,  of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

2.1 

Enniscorthy Sport Hub - LAC1701  

This  development  comprises  of  a  sports  amenity  building  containing  a 
multipurpose  area,  2  no.  dressing  rooms  and  public  toilet  facilities  (261m²), 
connecting  to  public  drainage  systems  and  all  associated  site  works  at  the 
Sports Hub, Cherryorchard, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

The  Members  noted  the  report  of  Mr.  T.  Enright,  Chief  Executive  dated  21 
March, 2017 in relation to the proposed development. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  K.  Doyle,  seconded  by  Councillor  J.  Mythen, 
the Members approved the development as outlined in the report. 

3.  2017 Capital Allocation for Publicly Funded Housing Loans 

Ms.  Annette  O’Neill,  Head  of  Finance,  presented  a  report  to  the  Members  outlining 
proposals  to  borrow  €3.5m  for  the  purpose  of  funding  the  2017  Capital  Allocation  for 
Publicly Funded Housing Loans. 

In accordance with Section 106 of the Local Government Act, and on the proposal of 
Councillor M. Byrne, seconded by Councilor A. O’Donohoe, the Members approved the 
borrowing proposal as outlined in the report. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

4.  Consideration of Draft Gorey Town and Environs Local Area Plan 2017-2023 and 

accompanying Chief Executive’s Report. 

The  Deputy  Chief  Executive  presented  the  Draft  Plan  and  accompanying  Chief 
Executive’s  Report  which  had  been  previously  circulated  and  he  recommended  the 
Plan to the Council for adoption. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  A.  Donohoe,  seconded  by  Councillor  Pip  Breen,  the 
Council  unanimously  agreed  to  make  the  Gorey  Town  and  Environs  Local  Area  Plan 
2017-2023 as circulated. 

There followed a discussion regarding the zoning of land, with  a number of Members 
expressing concern regarding a direction, recently issued by the Minister, restricting the 
amount of land zoned for residential development within the Plan area.  

The Deputy Chief Executive advised the Council that the process of reviewing the other 
development  plans  within  the  County  had  commenced,  with  an  expectation  that  the 
process of reviewing each plan would be completed by 2019. 

5.  Road Works Programme 2017 

Mr.  Eamonn  Hore,  Director  of  Services,  summarised  the  contents  of  the  proposed 
Road Works Programme which had been previously circulated. 

Mr.  Hore  responded  to  queries  from  the  Members  regarding  road  works  generally, 
including  road  reinstatement  policy,  surface  dressing  cycle,  severe  weather  finance 
provision,  public  lighting  improvements,  and  the  improvement  of  national  roads  in 
advance of the completion of current motorway projects . 

On the proposal of Councillor Michael Sheehan, seconded by Councilor John Hegarty, 
the members unanimously agreed to adopt the Programme as circulated. 

6.  Policy on Use of Library Spaces 

Ms. Eileen Morrissey, County Librarian, attended the meeting and presented the draft 
Policy on Use of Library Spaces which had been previously circulated. 

Ms.  Morrissey  advised  the  Members  that  in  2016  the  Council’s  library  service  hosted 
more than 1000 events. In order to continue to serve the public and in the light of ever 
increasing demand for access to the library spaces, it is necessary to introduce a policy 
to ensure a coordinated and consistent approach to requests for access to the libraries 
and manage public expectations. 

On  the proposal of  Councillor Michael Sheehan,  seconded by  Councilor Mary  Farrell, 
the  Members  unanimously  agreed  to  adopt  the  Policy  on  Use  of  Library  Spaces  as 
circulated. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

7.  Wexford Local Community Development Committee Annual Report 2015-2016 

Mr.  Ger  Mackey,  Chief  Officer,  Wexford  Local  Community  Development  Committee 
attended  the  meeting  and  presented  the  draft  Annual  Report  of  the  Wexford  Local 
Community Development Committee (LCDC) which had been previously circulated. 

Mr. Mackey gave the Members a brief summary of the work of the LCDC and reminded 
the Members that the Committee has statutory responsibility for overseeing significant 
community-related expenditure, including more than €5m under the SICAP Programme 
and a further €10m approximately under the current LEADER Programme. 

He  advised  the  Members  that  the  Wexford  Local  Economic  and  Community  Plan 
(LECP)  is  in  place  and  the  Committee  is  now  focused  on  the  implementation  of  the 
strategies, objectives and goals set out in that Plan. 

Finally Mr. Mackey advised that the Annual Report covered the period January 2015 to 
December 2016. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  A.  Donohoe,  seconded  by  Councilor  F.  Staples,  the 
Members  unanimously  agreed  to  adopt  the  Wexford  Local  Community  Development 
Committee Annual Report 2015-2016 as circulated. 

8.  Ratification of PPN Representatives to Wexford County Council Committees 

Ms. Annette Dupuy, Public Participation Network (PPN) Officer, attended the meeting. 
Ms.  Dupuy  advised  the  Members  that  a  number  of  committees  of  Wexford  County 
Council provided for representation thereon by a nominee selected by the PPN.  

A number of these positions are currently vacant and Ms. Dupuy advised that following 
a recent selection process, the following persons have been selected by the PPN to fill 
these positions: 

Name 

Position 

Mr. Senan O’Reilly  Environment Rep 

Ms. Marie Therese 
Power 

Ms.Ann Walsh 

Mr. Danny Forde 
Ms. Joy L. Rice 

Environment Rep 

Community and Voluntary 
Rep 
Environment Rep 
Social Inclusion Rep 

Committee 
Economic Development and Enterprise 
SPC 
Housing, Community & Environment 
SPC 
Housing, Community & Environment 
SPC 
Planning and Building Control SPC 
Joint Policing Committee 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  R.  Ireton,  seconded  by  Councilor  T.  Dempsey,  the 
Members unanimously ratified the nominees above to the positions described 

The  Members  wished  the  representatives  every  success  in  their  new  positions  and 
requested that every assistance and training be offered to them to allow them to fulfill 
their roles effectively. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

9.  Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group was noted.  

10. Chief Executive’s Report: 

The Chief Executive’s Report for April 2017 was circulated to the meeting.   

Questions raised by Councillors present were answered by Council Officials.  The 
issues raised included the following: 

  Roads 

  Planning   

  Environment 

  Housing & Community   

Norman Way Signage 
Proposed Road Improvements in Ferns Village 

Report on Noise emanating from Windfarms 
LEO end of year results 
Unfinished Estates 
Gorey Hatch Lab 

Signage for Recycling Centres 
Clarification on waste disposal arrangements at 
Homestown 
Courtown Harbour Improvement Works 

HAP and Buy & Renew Schemes 
Baile Eoghan Housing Scheme 
Allocation for house purchases 
Sports Partnership “Learn to Swim” programme 

  Other 

Market House, Gorey 

11. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training: 

The County Secretary circulated details of foreign travel proposals (Lugo, Italy) and this 
was agreed by the Council on the proposal of Cllr.  A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. M. 
Byrne. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  Cllr.  A.  Donohoe,  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne,  the  Members 
also  noted  and  approved  the  List  of  Councillors’  Conferences  and  Training  as 
circulated to the meeting. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. R. Ireton, the Council noted and 
approved the following minutes: 

County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

12.1 

New Ross Municipal District Meeting 08.02.17 

12.2  

Gorey Municipal District 21.02.17 

12.3  

Enniscorthy Municipal District 20.02.17 

12.4  

Economic Development & Enterprise SPC 28.03.17 

At this junction, Councillor O’Rourke left the meeting. 

13. Notices of Motion: 

13.1  

Cllr. M. Murphy: 

“I  call  on  Wexford  County  Council  to  put  a  plan  in  place  to  clean  and 
reinstate  the  many  1798  memorials  throughout  our  county,  most  of  which 
were  erected  by  voluntary  groups  to  respectfully  honour  local  heroes  from 
the  1798  period,  as  part  of  the  bicentenary  commemorations  which  took 
place almost twenty years ago”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  M.  Murphy,  seconded  by  Councillor  K.  Doyle  and 
agreed by all Members present. 

13.2  

Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“Noting the Government's proposed 2040 National Planning Framework, the 
need  for  greater  regional  balance,  and  the  excessive  concentration  of 
decision  making  in  Dublin,  Wexford  County  Council  calls  for  the  Capital  of 
Ireland to be moved back to its ancient location at Ferns”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  M.  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  R.  Ireton  and 
defeated on a vote of 2 in favour and 12 against. 

13.3  

Cllr. J. Fleming: 

“That  we  call  on  Wexford  County  Council  to  engage  immediately  with  Irish 
Water regarding taking in charge of estates”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  J.  Fleming,  seconded  by  Councillor  R.  Ireton  and 
agreed by all Members present. 

Both  the  Cathaoirleach  and  the  Deputy  Chief  Executive  reminded  the 
Council that the Executive is in constant dialogue with Irish Water regarding 
this on-going issue. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
13.4  

Cllr. L. McDonald: 

County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

“In accordance with its obligations under circular  PL/5215 we hereby request 
that  Wexford  County  Council  in  its  role  as  a  water  services  authority  
commences  the  process  of   taking  in  charge  sewerage  treatment  plants 
where the bond has expired or is no longer applicable”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  L.  McDonald,  seconded  by  Councillor  M.  Sheehan 
and agreed by all Members present 

The  Deputy  Chief  Executive  advised  the  Council  that  the  Executive  is 
currently in the process of taking these estates in charge, as the Council is 
legally  required  to  do.  Mr.  Larkin  advised  that  he  anticipated  difficulties  in 
remediating many of these estates in the future, and that the Executive was 
engaged in discussions with Irish Water with a view to resolving the complex 
issues involved. 

13.5  

Cllr. A. Kelly: 

“I move that this Council would call on Minister Denis Naughton to introduce 
the  necessary  legislation  to  address  the  easy  accessibility  to  online 
gambling”. 

In the absence of Councillor Kelly and in accordance with Standing Orders 
the Motion was deemed withdrawn, to be resubmitted at a later date. 

13.6 Cllr. D. Wadding: 

“This  Council  calls  on  Minister  Simon  Harris  to  immediately  move  to  make 
available Medicinal Cannabis in support of Vera Twomey and other families 
in need . We furthermore request the Minister to acknowledge that the terms 
of  the  HPRA  report  limiting  use  to  three  conditions  only  is  too  narrow  and 
fails many suffering chronic pain from a range of conditions”. 

Proposed by Councillor D. Wadding, seconded by Councillor J. Mythen and 
agreed by all Members present. 

13.7 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“Recognising the need for continuous activation programmes for job seekers 
and to ensure every person is given a fair opportunity to develop their skills 
and  attributes  in  search  of  their  preferred  career;  this  Council  calls  for  a 
review  of  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  Turas  Nua  scheme  to  be  more 
accommodating  to  allow  participants  to  enrol  in  and  continue  on  courses/ 
programmes training that will lead to employment in their chosen field”. 

Proposed by Councillor M. Sheehan, seconded by Councillor G. Carthy and 
agreed by all Members present. 

7 

 
 
 
 
13.8  

Cllr. O. O’Connell: 

“This Council notes: 

County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

-  the  2015  government  capital  plan  for  new  primary  and  secondary  school 
buildings was based  on demographic birth, migration data and assumptions, 
that will shortly be two-to-three years old; 

- that this state has one of the highest birthrates in Europe; 

and requests that the Minister re-examine the latest demographic data, with 
a view to prioritising and bringing forward building schedules. 

Refs: 

http://m.independent.ie/life/family/mothers-babies/baby-boom-hits-ireland-as-we-
top-the-european-birth-rate-31368622.html 

http://www.thejournal.ie/new-schools-ireland-2449713-Nov2015/#comments 

http://www.education.ie/en/Publications/Statistics/Statistical-Reports/Other-
Statistical-Reports.html 

Proposed  by  Councillor  O.  O’Connell,  seconded  by  Councillor  D.  Wadding 
and agreed by all Members present. 

13.9  

Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“That  in  placing  planning  application  notices,  that  Wexford  County  Council 
would  require  the  applicant  to  place  the  advertisement  in  at  least  one  local 
newspaper,  being  defined  as  a  newspaper  published  in  the  County  of 
Wexford with an independently audited circulation in Co. Wexford in excess 
of 1,000 copies weekly or, if online, with at least 1,000 independently audited 
unique users per week”. 

Proposed by Councillor M. Byrne, seconded by Councillor F. O’Suilleabháin 
and agreed by all Members present. 

Mr.  Tony  Larkin  advised  the  Members  that  he  would  arrange  to  review  the 
list of approved publications in accordance with the provisions of the relevant 
legislation, and would provide an update in respect of that review to the June 
2017 meeting of the Council. 

Mr. Larkin reminded the Members that the Council’s free MapAlerter service 
provides  a  useful  mechanism  whereby  a  member  of  the  public  can  receive 
an  “alert”  text  or  “alert”  email  when  the  Council  receives  a  planning 
application relating to their locality 

8 

 
 
 
 
13.10   Cllr. D. Wadding: 

County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

“This  Council  welcomes  the  opportunity  for  cultural  awareness  training  in 
preparation  for the  arrival of Syrian  refugee  families  to Wexford,  I call  upon 
our  Council  to  similarly,  in  the  light  of  the  official  acknowledgement  of 
Traveller  Ethnicity  undertake  a  programme  of  training  in  awareness  of 
Traveller Culture, issues and rights”. 

Proposed by Councillor D. Wadding, seconded by Councillor J. Mythen and 
agreed on a vote of eleven in favour and seven against. 

14. Sealing of Documents: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by an Cathaoirleach, the Members noted 
and approved the sealing of documents as submitted to the meeting. 

15. Correspondence and Communications: 

The Members noted the following correspondence:  

  Correspondence from the Office of the Minister for Education and Skills 

regarding St. Senan’s Hospital and grounds. 

  Correspondence from Mr. Simon Harris, TD, regarding St. Senan’s 

  Correspondence from the Office of Simon Coveney, TD, regarding the 

assessment of Family Income Supplement payments for social housing eligibility 
purposes. 

  Correspondence from the Office of the Minister for Education and Skills 

regarding school admissions. 

  Correspondence from Simon Harris, TD, regarding C.A.M.H.S. posts in 

Wexford. 

  Correspondence from the HSE regarding St. Senan’s. 

  Acknowledgement from the office of Michael Creed, TD, Minister for Agriculture, 

Food and the Marine, regarding fisheries. 

  Acknowledgment from the Taoiseach’s Private Office regarding the Tuam 

Mother and Baby home. 

  Correspondence from Graham Lennox, Private Secretary to Minister Creed 

regarding Fishery Harbours 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. Any Other Business:   

16.1 

Origami “Cranes” Exhibition 

County Council Meeting 10.04.17 

Councillor  Barbara  Anne  Murphy  congratulated  those  involved  with  the 
recently 
“1000  Cranes”  and 
recommended it to her colleagues to view. 

installed  exhibition  at  County  Hall  of 

16.2 

Enniscorthy Main Drainage – Upgrade works 

Councillor  K.  Doyle  welcomed  recent  reports  of  an  announcement  by  Irish 
Water  of  an  allocation  to  fund  Phase  3  of  the  Enniscorthy  Main  Drainage 
Scheme. 

16.3 

Mr. Ibrahim Halawa 

Councillor  J.  Mythen  raised  the  issue  of  the  continued  detention  of  Irish 
citizen Mr. Ibrahim Halawa, who is believed to be suffering ill-health. 

Councillor  Mythen  asked  that  the  Council  write  to  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and request  the Minister to do everything  within his power to secure 
Mr. Halawa’s immediate release from prison.  

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
