County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 12th September, 2022 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA 
ANNE 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

OWENS 

FIONNTÁN 
(Remote & 
In-Person) 

JACKSER 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

STAPLES 

FRANK 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, A/Director of Services & County Secretary 
Mr. Brian Galvin, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Fionnuala Callery, A/Senior Engineer 

Apologies: 

Officials: 

Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Page 1 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The  Cathaoirleach  offered  the  sympathy  of  the  Council  to  the  families  of  the  following 
recently deceased: 

•  The family of John Byrne, General Operative, Enniscorthy Municipal District 

•  The family of Julia Cullen, mother of Geraldine Cullen, Planning Department 

•  The family of Margaret (Maggie) Doran (née Kavanagh), mother of Elizabeth Doran, 

Wexford Borough District 

•  The family of Pat Laffan, General Operative, New Ross Town Council 

Votes of Congratulations 

Cllr. J. Moore congratulated Cllr. J. Hegarty on his appointment as Wexford senior football 
manager. The Cathaoirleach extended the congratulations of the Council to Cllr. Hegarty on 
his appointment and wished him the best of luck in 2023. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 

County Council Meeting 11th July, 2022  

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved 
to confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 11th July, 2022. 

1.1.1   Matters Arising 

Cllr. M. Sheehan asked that a date be agreed for a Special Housing Meeting. 

Cllr. J. Owens asked that the Minister for Housing be invited to attend a 
Council meeting.  

Cllr. T. Forde echoed the call for the Minister for Housing to be invited to a 
Council meeting. Cllr. Forde also requested a report on Wexford County 
Council’s own front door emergency accommodation. 

Cllr. L. McDonald asked that the letter of invitation the Executive said had 
been issued to the Minister for Housing, be circulated. It was agreed that 
the letter of invitation will be circulated to all the Members. 

2. 

Budget 2023 

2.a 

Local Property Tax – Local Adjustment Factor 2023 (LAF) 

Ms. A. O’Neill circulated a report outlining the changes in the regulations which 

Page 2 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

came into effect on 18th July. Cllr. T. Forde requested that the public consultation 
period be extended, this was agreed by Ms. A. O’Neill. 

2.b  

Local Property Tax – Provisional Allocation 2023 

Ms.  A.  O’Neill  outlined  that  the  LPT  Provisional  Allocation  for  2023  (pre  local 
adjustment) is €13,547,516. The baseline figure remains unchanged for 2023 and 
is the 10th year of this baseline figure for Wexford. 

 2.c 

Budget Meetings 2023 – Prescribed Periods 

The prescribed period for the Statutory Budget Meeting is as follows: 

All local authorities and joint bodies: 1st November 2022 to 30th November 2022 

The  prescribed  period  for  the  holding  of  a  meeting  of  a  Municipal  District  to 
consider the GMA is as follows: 

All local authorities: 14th October 2022 to 15th November 2022 

2.d 

Proposed Schedule of Dates 

The following dates were noted and agreed on the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore and 
seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy: 

Meeting 

Proposed Date 

Budget  Strategy  Meeting  –  Cross  Party 
Group 

Monday 26th September at 10am 

Decision on LAF for LPT 2023 

Council Meeting 10th October 

Draft Budgetary Plan Meeting with MD’s  October MD Meetings* 

Statutory Budget Meeting 

Monday 28th November at 10am 

*As  NRMD  October  Meeting  is  outside  the  statutory  period,  a  change  of  date  will  be 
proposed 

A wide-ranging discussion took place on the LAF and projects relying on LPT funding, 
including a potential Fleadh Cheoil na hÉireann. 

3. 

Approval for delegation from New Ross Municipal District to travel to Danville to attend 
Eugene O’Neill Festival – 16th to 22nd September, 2022 

A long discussion took place on the merits of the trip. The following Councillors expressed 
concerns or opposition to the trip – Cllr.’s T. Forde, D. Devereux, C. Byrne, J. Codd, D. 

Page 3 of 12 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

Hynes, J. Owens, B. Murphy. The following Councillors spoke in favour of the trip – Cllrs J. 
Fleming, P. Barden, A. Connick, P. Breen, M. Sheehan & M. Whelan. 

Cllr. M. Whelan proposed the approval of the trip and this was seconded by Cllr. P. Breen. 
The vote was carried with Cllr. L. Kelly abstaining. 

4. 

Annual Report 2019 & 2020 – For Adoption 

The 2019 and 2020 Annual Reports were adopted on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan and 
seconded by Cllr. J. Moore. 

5. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members in regard to the following: 

•  Phase 2 of Rosetown Housing Development 
•  Energy Retrofitting of local authority houses 
•  CCTV process  
•  Utility works at Summerhill 
•  Pyrite issue affecting family in Ferns 
•  Odour issue at Custom Compost 
•  Road works at Ballycarney junction 
•  Road works at Tomahurra 
•  Bridge rehabilitation grant 
•  Public lighting from Ferns GAA ground to village 
•  Strategic plan for Enniscorthy 
•  Enniscorthy Technology Park 
•  Water outage in South-West of County 
•  Update on Waterford airport 
•  Update on Broadband 
•  Emergency accommodation options during weather warnings 
•  Social housing refusal rates 
•  Housing For All programme 
•  Special projects updates 
•  Pre-planning meeting delays 
• 
•  Active travel projects update 
•  Water issues at Airfield Road 
•  Knotweed in Trinity Street 
•  Requirements and process for holding an event on a public road 
•  Sewerage scheme in Ferns 
•  Serviced local authority land 

Interruptions to water supply in Bunclody 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point.  

Page 4 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

On the resumption of the meeting, the following issues were discussed: 

•  Lack of emergency accommodation in Enniscorthy 
•  Works required to Wilton bridge 
•  Parking ticket arrangements – 1 ticket for all areas 
•  Demolition of houses in Adamstown 
•  Delays in relation to ESB works 
•  Tendering for Mt. Elliot portion of greenway 
•  Can services be made available on iMaps 
•  EIP Project extension to Bannow Bay 
•  Skatepark in Wexford 
•  Grants for Older People 
•  Requirements around standard of blocks in County 
•  Fire service staff housing requirements proximate to stations 
•  Charging points in private estates 

The following left the meeting at this point, Cllr. J. Owens, Cllr. D. Hynes, Cllr. J. O’Rourke, 
Cllr. A. Browne, Cllr. A. Donohoe, Cllr. F. Staples, Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cllr. B. Murphy, Cllr. D. 
Devereux. 

•  Review of safety measures at Kyle Cross 
•  Consultants role on N25 at Barntown 
• 
Town & Village Scheme update – Brennan’s Lane 
•  Update on appointment of Town Regeneration Officer 
•  Respond units in Irishtown, New Ross 
•  Houses at the Bullawn, New Ross 
•  Housing scheme at Rosbercon 
• 
Turnaround time for DPAs 
• 
Sites available for industry in New Ross 
• 
South-East Greenway naming 
•  Rent pressure zones 
•  Recruitment of new planners 
•  Plans for Glenville Road works 
•  Offshore wind energy 
•  Derelict properties and return to use 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. A. Bolger and agreed by all, the Council 
agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue past 5.30pm. 

Cllr. M. Farrell highlighted personal abuse directed at members of her family in a comment posted 
under an article on the Wexford People Facebook page. Cllr. Farrell said she felt extremely 
strongly that something should have been done about the comment and felt very disappointed 
and upset that the comment was still up almost two months later.  

County Secretary Michael Drea offered his full support to Cllr. Farrell and condemned the 
comment and the online abuse. He stated that on-line abuse is becoming a major issue for 
Councillors and staff and a unified approach is needed to address it. Chief Executive Tom Enright 

Page 5 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

offered his full support to Cllr. Farrell and also condemned the comments and online abuse 
referring to it as cowardly acts perpetrated by people who ought to know better. 

Cllr. M. Bell and Cllr. L. McDonald offered their support to Cllr. M. Farrell. 

The following left the meeting at this point, Cllr. P. Barden, Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and Cllr. M. Whelan. 

6. 

Minutes of CPG  

6.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 5th September, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, the Council 
resolved to adopt the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 5th September, 2022. 

7. 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 08.06.2022 
7.1 
Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 15.06.2022 
7.2  
Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 22.06.2022 
7.3  
7.4  
Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 27.06.2022 
7.5   Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 21.06.2022 
7.6 
7.7 
7.8   Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Annual Meeting – 21.06.2022 
7.9  
7.10 

Rosslare Municipal District Annual Meeting – 27.06.2022 
Enniscorthy Municipal District Annual Meeting – 27.06.2022 

Borough District of Wexford Annual Meeting – 27.06.2022 
New Ross Municipal District Annual Meeting – 27.06.2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen and seconded by Cllr. A. Connick, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Minutes of the above meetings. 

8. 

Correspondence and Communications 

8.1 
8.2 

8.3 
8.4 

8.5 

8.6 

Letter from Limerick City & County Council re: motion dated 1st July 
E-mail from Niamh Redmond Private Secretary to Darragh O’Brien, TD re: 
motion dated 7th July, 2022 
Letters from Donegal County Council re: motion dated 22nd July, 2022 
E-mail from Mary Butler TD, Minister for Mental Health and Older People 
re: motion dated 27th July, 2022 
Letter from Department of Social Protection re: motion dated 3rd August, 
2022 
E-mail from Private Secretary to the Minister of State, Patrick O’Donovan 
TD re: motion dated 22nd August, 2022 

The Members noted the above correspondence items and expressed their appreciation for 
the responses received. 

Page 6 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

9. 

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  

9.1 

List of Conferences/Training – List Attached  

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy and seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan, the Council 
approved the list of conferences and training events for attendance, as circulated. 

9.2 

Councillor Conference Reports: 

•  Cllr. M. Sheehan – Special Conference on Dereliction and celebration of 

Church Lane Historic Towns Initiative – 22nd July, 2022 

The Members noted the Report above, as circulated. 

10. 

Notices of Motions  

10.1 Motion Passed at Climate Change, Biodiversity and Environment SPC Meeting 16th 
June 2022 

Motion on Domestic Waste Water Treatment Systems (DWWTS) 

“Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage 
to amend the Regulations relating to the registration of DWWTS. This is to allow home 
owners who missed out on the original registration date of 1st February, 2013 to register 
and become eligible under the DWWTS Scheme of Financial Assistance for the repair or 
upgrade of systems that have failed inspections. The Council also calls on the Minister to 
increase the current maximum grant level of €5,000 in light of recent significant cost 
increases for remedial works to Treatment Systems”. 

Response of the Executive: 

If agreed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing, Local Government and 
Heritage. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan and carried. 

10.2    Cllr. T. Forde 

‘This council agrees that the housing delivery targets for the county through the Housing 
For All Plan 2022-2026, which at best will only deliver 36% of our current need, are 
insufficient and not ambitious enough for our county. 

In light of recent comments made on local radio by the Minister for Housing that 
Councillors "are not found wanting for resources from the Government," this council 
request that the balance of this implied funding and additional resources immediately be 
made available so that we can work to significantly increase our delivery targets and meet 
the projected need in Co. Wexford." 

Page 7 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

Response of the Executive: 

The current Housing for All plan for County Wexford contains a minimum delivery target of 
1,155 new housing units to be delivered over the lifetime of the programme (2022 to 
2026).  This target was provided to the Council by the Department and WCC’s expectation 
is that it will improve on this target as the plan progresses. 

The total need for County Wexford stands at 3,187 households.  This figure is made up of 
1,743 households who are currently accommodated in HAP supported properties and a 
further 1,444 households who have not had their social housing needs met.   The target of 
1,155 will meet 80% of the unmet social housing need in County Wexford and 36% of the 
full need.  

This figure includes housing units delivered by WCC, Approved Housing Bodies and turnkey 
developments.  

There are many factors that can affect the delivery of housing schemes. These include 
planning, water and wastewater services, land and the availability of external design 
consultant and works contractors. 

WCC is examining each scheme on its programme with a view to maximising the number of 
units that can be delivered in serviced areas in line with the County Development Plan.  

Additional resources have been provided under Housing for All and new staff are being 
recruited and put in place within the Housing section currently. 

We are working in conjunction with the Housing Delivery Co-Ordination Office to develop 
more efficient methods for procuring new schemes that will reduce delivery times 
including the use of design/build and related tendering processes.   

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin and carried. 

10.3    Cllr. A. Bolger 

"Wexford County Council supports the campaign to scrap VAT on defibrillators, AED pads 
and batteries. 

The Irish Heart Foundation has described the VAT as 'a tax on saving lives'. Providing 
defibrillators largely falls to community and sporting groups, the VAT on top of the 
purchase of a defibrillator is an additional cost for these groups where a defibrillator and 
cabinet are priced at approximately €1,900 excluding VAT at 23%. 

To remove the VAT on defibrillators, AED pads and batteries would be a benefit to the 
wider community."  

Response of the Executive: 

Page 8 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

If agreed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Finance. 

For information: 

Wexford Civil Defence and Wexford County Council Emergency Services are co-ordinating a 
Community First Responder training event for October 2022 which will be delivered by 
voluntary emergency services groups including the Order of Malta, John of God, Civil 
Defence as well as in association with the National Ambulance Service.  This training will 
include basic first aid as well as advice to groups on maintaining a defibrillator device in 
good working order.   Where this training is completed, the Council will share group and 
defibrillator details with the National Ambulance Service for inclusion on their advance 
location system, which can be advised to members of the public in an emergency.  Regular 
training will be required to maintain registration with NAS.  

The programme is supported by the Regional Working Group for Major Emergency 
Management and forms part of the Wexford Community Resilience Programme. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. A. Bolger, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick and carried. 

10.4    Cllr. J. Fleming  

“That Wexford county council calls on minister for housing planning Daragh O Brien to 
change the regulation regarding a planning application site notice .when a site is inspected 
and the site notice is not visible the applicant has to re apply and go through the whole 
costly planning process again . 

 I am calling on the minister to change the regulation to when the county council inspect 
the site and find there is no plannning documentation displayed they give a two week 
notice to the applicant to get the planning notice erected for inspection after that two 
week period.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If agreed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing, Local Government and 
Heritage. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick and carried. 

10.5    Cllr. M. Sheehan 

 “That this Council agrees to develop and establish a Hardship Rent Relief Scheme to 
alleviate financial pressures on Tenants in arrears with exceptional and unique 
circumstances and to be adopted before the 2023 Annual Budget.” 

Response of the Executive: 

Page 9 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

The current Differential Rent scheme provides for a hardship clause, as follows: 

“The Hardship Clause is applicable to households when, in exceptional circumstances, 
payment of their calculated rent would, in the opinion of the Housing Authority, give rise 
to hardship to the tenant or tenant’s family. In such cases, the Authority may agree to 
accept a smaller sum from the tenant for a specified period. Such a smaller sum should not 
be less than 6% of the total assessable household income.” 

The clause is considered on a case-by-case basis by the Rents Section. Often where a 
household falls into arrears, a payment plan can be agreed that recognises the challenges 
of the household.   

The motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and carried. 

10.6    Cllr. L. McDonald and Cllr. G. Carthy 

“We hereby call upon Wexford County Council to immediately identify and secure a site to 
commence preparation for the submission of an affordable housing scheme for the 
Rosslare District. 

We further request the production housing plan for the Rosslare District under Housing for 
All to be produced at the October meeting of this Council” 

Response of the Executive: 

All counties were assessed by the Department of Housing in terms of affordability as part 
of the preparation process for the Housing for All Action Plans. In the first instance, County 
Wexford, when considered as a whole, did not meet the affordability threshold to be 
considered for funding under the Affordable Housing Fund. The AHF would provide the 
local authority with up to €50,000 per housing unit in order to meet the affordability ‘gap’ 
between construction costs and the financial limit of the purchaser.  

The Council has subsequently contracted KPMG to undertake a sub-county analysis on the 
main urban centres within each district, including Rosslare Strand in the Rosslare District, 
to determine whether we can demonstrate an affordability constraint and therefore access 
the necessary funding through the Affordable Housing Fund.  

Once it is established on foot of the KPMG report what areas may access funding through 
the AHF, the Council will move to identify further affordable housing schemes for 
development. The Housing Department will also work to support other schemes outside 
the main Affordable Housing Fund, where land and project costs can be met.    

The Council has already commenced procurement for a team to design, build and manage 
the first affordable scheme in the County, located at Ramsfort Gorey.  

Page 10 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

The Housing for All Plan for the County, with a breakdown of each district, is currently 
available on the Council’s website.  A full list of approved housing projects for Rosslare 
District will also be presented at the District Meeting. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and carried. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald and agreed by all, the 
Council agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue past 6pm. 

10.7    Cllr. BA Murphy, Cllr. A. Bolger, Cllr. D. Kenny, Cllr. P. Breen, Cllr. A. Browne, Cllr. L. 
McDonald 

“We call on Wexford County Council to immediately apply for housing projects under the 
Single Stage Approval Process so we can provide essential accommodation.” 

Response of the Executive: 

There are 9 schemes that will deliver a total of 221 housing units, which do not meet the 
criteria for the single stage application, that are being progressed by WCC under the 4 
stage process. 

The single stage application has specific criteria in terms of the number of units and the 
overall project scheme cost (25 units and €6m). It is suited to straightforward sites with low 
risk as the budget has to be defined at an early stage of scheme development and included 
in the single stage process. This budget is then fixed by the Department. If the approved 
budget is exceeded, further approval has to be sought from the Department and there is 
no guarantee of recouping all costs. 

In effect, the same amount of work is required for both the 4 stage and the single stage 
processes but there can be a time saving in terms of the number of approvals required 
from the Department, and this is typically of the order of a couple of months. 

WCC is examining all of the schemes that could avail of the single stage process and will 
where suitable use this process. 

10.8    Cllr. T. Forde & Cllr. J. Codd 

"As many children in County Wexford cannot secure a place in a secondary school in their 
local area and are forced to travel to a school in another district, we call on the Minister to 
ensure that adequate bus services are provided to facilitate all school pupils with transport 
so that their education will not be hindered." 

Response of the Executive: 

If agreed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Education. 

10.9    Cllr. J. Fleming  

Page 11 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.09.22 

“That Wexford county council calls on the Electricity Supply board to withdraw the Pso levy 
charge from bills to financially cash strapped customers whose bills have increased hugely 
recently.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If agreed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for the Environment, Climate and 
Communications. 

For information: 
The PSO (Public Service Obligation) levy is mandated by the Irish Government and 
approved by the European Commission. It is charged to all electricity customers in Ireland 
and supports the generation of electricity from sustainable, renewable and indigenous 
sources. 

The levy is calculated and certified annually by the CRU (Commission for Regulation of 
Utilities) in line with relevant legislation. All energy suppliers are required to collect this 
levy from customers through bills. 

10.10 Cllr. M. Sheehan 

“That this Council calls on the Department of Housing and Local Government to amend the 
Housing Application regulations to permit Local Authorities the ability to disregard the 
Annual Average (52 Week) Income rule to accept applications for Social supports in cases 
that present evidence of exceptional incidents of hardship and/or extenuating medical 
conditions.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If agreed, this motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Housing, Local Government and 
Heritage. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, motions 10.7, 10.8, 10.9 and 
10.10 were taken together, and carried. 

11. 

Any Other Business 

There was no other business. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Deireadh Fómhair, 2022. 

________________________  
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 12 of 12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
