County Council Meeting 12.12.22 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 12th December, 2022 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 
(Remote) 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN  FIONNTÁN 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

KELLY 

LEONARD  WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KENNY 

DONAL 

LAFFAN 

GARRY 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

MOORE 

JIM 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

MURPHY 

BARBARA 
ANNE 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. Sean Meyler, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Paul L’Estrange, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Apologies: 

Cllr. Willie Kavanagh, Cllr. Michael Sheehan, Cllr. Frank Staples and Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director 
of Services 

Page 1 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Cathaoirleach welcomed the 3rd year CSPE class from Enniscorthy Community College who 
were attending the meeting with their teachers Jessica Doyle and Conor Dempsey. 

County Council Meeting 12.12.22 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to the family of Nuala Kehoe, sister of 
Martin  Murray,  General  Operative,  Water  Services  and  the  family  of  Aidan  Moran,  father  of 
Aishling Doyle, Credit Control, brother of Caitriona O’Sullivan, Arts Section and brother-in-law of 
Mary Moran, Water Services. 

The Cathaoirleach remembered former employee Billy Kinsella who sadly passed away in tragic 
circumstances in February and he paid respect to Billy’s wife Rita and son Conor. 

Votes of Congratulations: 

Cllr. M. Whelan congratulated St. Mogues Fethard on winning the AIB Leinster GAA Intermediate 
Club Football Final and Horeswood on winning the AIB Leinster GAA Junior Club Hurling Final. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1       County Council Meeting 14th November, 2022 

1.2       Special County Council Meeting (Housing) 14th November 2022 

1.3       Statutory Budget Meeting 28th November, 2022 

1.4       Special County Council Meeting (Housing) 5th December, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick, the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 14th November, 2022, the Special 
County Council Meeting (Housing) on 14th November 2022, the Statutory Budget Meeting 
on 28th November, 2022 and the Special County Council Meeting (Housing) on 5th 
December, 2022. 

2.1.1   Matters Arising 

Cllr. G. Carthy sought an update in relation to rail connectivity for Rosslare. Ms. L. Hore 
advised that there is an all-island strategic rail review ongoing at present. Ms. L. Hore 
indicated that the Economic Development & Enterprise SPC has written to the Minister 
seeking an update. 

2.  Part XI of the Planning & Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning 

& Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

2.1 LAC2210 - Install a replacement stairs to access the cliff top walk at Arthurstown Pier 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, 
seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the installation of a 

Page 2 of 7 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
replacement stairs to access the cliff top walk at Arthurstown Pier in accordance with the 
terms of LAC2210, as circulated. 

County Council Meeting 12.12.22 

3.  Savannah Delegation 2023 

Ms. L. Hore outlined the reasons why the CPG recommended sending a strong delegation 
headed by the Cathaoirleach and the Chair of each Municipal District to Savannah in 2023 
and sought the approval of the Council. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan, the Council resolved to 
approve the Savannah delegation.   

4.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Refusal of planning permission to convert two creches into residential units in Cluain Dara. 
•  Timeline for presentation of proposed works on Esmonde St. to locals. 
•  Pre-planning meeting delays and proposals to address same. 
•  Planning for upgrade works to water supply intake and rising main in Enniscorthy. 
•  Update on services for Rosslare and pumping of sewerage from Tagoat to Rosslare. 
•  Use of single stage process for housing developments. 
•  Update on two properties which are derelict in Churchview, Clongeen. 
•  Timeline for development of units in Tagoat. 
•  Does the Council have adequate salt, and sandbag supplies? 
•  Update in relation to funding for those affected by wind event in Clongeen and Foulksmills. 
•  Has the Council sufficient funds for road repairs? 
•  Update in relation to 6 derelict buildings in Taghmon. 
•  Timeline for action on 2 derelict sites in Wexford – Davitt Road and Hill St. 
•  Progress with pledged properties for displaced Ukranians. 
• 
•  Did Wexford County Council carry out an assessment of cost of works in Clongeen & 

Implication of Residential Zoned Land Tax. 

Foulksmills? 

•  When will Town Regeneration Officer role be filled and when will consequent vacancy in 

New Ross MD be filled? 

•  Contingency plan for rough sleepers. 
•  Safe route to school’s programme – why no urban school? 
• 
Is it possible to get better engagement with the ESB? 
•  Plan for planting 1,000,000 trees in Wexford and creating greater visibility. 
•  Request for presentation on implications for Wexford town if Fleadh is awarded. 
•  How do we deal with creeping dereliction and encourage businesses to upgrade? 
•  Process for getting planning permission for car parking and merits of use of town centre 

land for parking. 
Is there sufficient administrative support for preplanning meetings? 

• 
•  Timeframe for Wexford LAP. 
•  Update on engagement process in relation to providing education for displaced Ukranians. 

Page 3 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.12.22 

•  Update on N25 Rosslare Europort Road. 
•  Timeline for tendering Lot 4 of the Southeast greenway. 

Leas Cathaoirleach Cllr. Michael Whelan took the Chair as Cathaoirleach Cllr. George 
Lawlor excused himself from the meeting momentarily. 

•  Does the Council complete an entire estate under the Energy Retrofit Programme? 
•  Complaint of on-going water pressure issues in Bunclody. 

Cathaoirleach Cllr. George Lawlor resumed the Chair. 

•  Update on lighting of pedestrian crossing at supermarket in Ferndale. 
•  Timeframe for construction of Trinity Wharf. 
•  The possibility of using housing stock for emergency accommodation. 
•  Request that Loci plan be made available to Enniscorthy MD Members prior to meeting to 

discuss plan next week. 

•  Timeframe for development of St. Joseph’s site in Gorey. 
•  Number of on-the-spot fines issued under the Control of Dogs Act and number of 

prosecutions? 

•  Request to enhance the Dog Warden service. 
•  Request for campaign re: byelaws and Control of Dogs Act. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break and at this point.  

Cllr.’s G. Carthy, D. Devereux, L. McDonald, & J. O’Rourke left the meeting at this point. 

5.  Minutes of CPG  

5.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 5th December, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the Council resolved 
to confirm the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 5th December, 2022. 

6.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

6.1      New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 19th October, 2022 
6.2      Rosslare Municipal District Meeting –  19th October, 2022 
             6.3      Borough District of Wexford Meeting– 17th October, 2022 
             6.4      Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 17th October, 2022 
             6.5      Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 18th October, 2022 
             6.6      Economic Development & Enterprise SPC Meeting – 22nd September, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd-Nolan, the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the above meetings. 

Page 4 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.12.22 

7.  Correspondence and Communications 

7.1       Letter from Wicklow County Council re: motion dated 8th November, 2022. 
             7.2       Letters from Sligo County Council re: 3 motions dated 11th November, 2022.         

7.3       Letter from Monaghan County Council re: motion solar panels dated 
9th November, 2022. 
7.4       Letter from Monaghan County Council re: motion concrete/block levy dated 
9th November, 2022. 
7.5       Email from Niamh Redmond, Private Secretary, Minister O’Brien’s office re: 
motion dated 17th November, 2022 
7.6       Letter from Mayo County Council refund for TIC Housing Estates dated 
29th November, 2022 

The Members noted the above correspondence. 

In relation to the response received from Minister O’Brien’s Office (7.5 above), Cllr. T. 
Forde expressed his dissatisfaction that there is no room for discretion when assessing 
income over a 52-week period for social housing eligibility. Cllr. T. Forde is supportive of 
Cllr. M. Sheehan’s previous motion which sought “to permit Local Authorities the ability to 
disregard the Annual Average (52 Week) Income rule to accept applications for Social 
supports in cases that present evidence of exceptional incidents of hardship and/or 
extenuating medical conditions”. Cllr. T. Forde proposed that Wexford County Council 
write to the Minister expressing dissatisfaction with the current assessment process and 
this proposal was seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor. 

8.  Councillor’s Conferences and Training 

8.1       List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council approved 
for attendance the list of conferences and training events, as circulated. 

8.2       Councillor’s Conference Report:                     

Conference Report - Cllr. Mary Farrell "Women's Caucus Pathways to 
Participation" - 22nd November, 2022 

The Members noted the report above, as circulated. 

9.  Notices of Motion 

9.1  Cllr. J. Moore 

“Wexford County Council formally invites the Russian Ambassador and his officials to 
Wexford County Council including Rosslare Europort to see the effects of Russia's current 
policies and actions on the community of Wexford and Ukraine.” 

Response of the Executive: 

Page 5 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.12.22 

If passed an invitation will be extended to the Russian Ambassador.  

The motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Moore and seconded by Cllr. F. Ó'Súilleabháin.  

Cllr. J. Moore spoke in favour of his motion highlighting that Ireland has led the way in 
peacekeeping and the intention of the invite is to highlight the impact on those who had to 
flee Ukraine. Cllr.’s T. Forde, D. Hynes and F. Ó'Súilleabháin spoke in favour of the motion. 

Whilst acknowledging the well-intended spirit of the motion, Cllr.’s L. Kelly, M. Whelan, P. 
Breen, J. Codd, B.A. Murphy and G. Lawlor spoke against the motion. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that there would be a roll call vote at Cllr. L. Kelly’s request. The 
outcome was the motion fell with 5 in favour and 20 against. The voting was as follows: 

SULLIVAN JOE 

WALSH OLIVER 

WHELAN 
MICHAEL 

A 

A 

A 

BARDEN PAT 

BELL MAURA 

BOLGER 
ANDREW 

BREEN PIP 

BROWNE 
AIDAN 
BYRNE 
CATHAL 

CODD JIM 

CODD-NOLAN 
KATHLEEN  
CONNICK 
ANTHONY 
FARRELL 
MARY 
FLEMING 
JOHN 

A 

A 

A 

A 

A 

A 

A 

F 

A 

A 

A 

9.2  Cllr. M. Sheehan 

FORDE TOM 

HEGARTY JOHN 

HYNES DAVID 

F 

A 

F 

KELLY LEONARD  A 

KENNY DONAL 

A 

LAFFAN GARRY   A 

LAWLOR 
GEORGE 

MOORE JIM 

MURPHY 
BARBARA ANNE 

A 

F 

A 

MURPHY BRIDIN  A 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN 
FIONNTÁN  

F 

“That this Council reaffirms our support for the Greyhound industry locally and welcomes 
the continued funding from the Government to uphold and maintain the standards, 
employment and recognises the economic benefit and return on investment. Furthermore,  
we call on our Oireachtas members to support the Industry and notes the opposition by 
three of them to ensure the passage of funding  and jeopardising the future of the sport.” 

Response of the Executive: 

Page 6 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.12.22 

If passed, this motion will be forwarded to the Wexford Oireachtas Members for 
consideration. 

This motion fell as the proposer wasn’t present to move the motion. 

10. Any Other Business 

Cllr. K. Codd-Nolan asked the Cathaoirleach why he wasn’t proceeding with the Chairman’s 
Christmas Dinner. Cllr. G. Lawlor advised that he felt it had run its course and each 
Municipal District was having their own lunch. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Eanáir, 2023. 

________________________  
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 7 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
