County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council held on Monday 8th April, 2024 in the Council Chamber 
at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Farrell 

Mary 

Ó’Súilleabháin 

Bell 

Maura  

Forde  

Tom 

Owens 

Fionntáin 
(online) 

Jackser 

Hegarty  

John  

Sheehan 

Michael 

Bolger 

Breen 

Andrew  
(online) 
Pip 

Hynes 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kavanagh 

David  
(online) 
Willie 

Staples 

Frank  

Sullivan 

Joe 

Byrne 

Cathal 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Walsh 

 Oliver 

Ger 

Jim 

Kenny 

Donal 

Whelan 

 Michael 

Laffan 

Garry 

Kathleen 

Lawlor  

George 

Anthony  
(online) 
Anthony 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Moore 

Jim 

Carthy 

Codd 

Codd-
Nolan 
Connick 

Donohoe 

Officials: 

Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Ms Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services  

Mr. Shay Howell, A/Director of Services 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ms. Lynda Lacey, A/Head of Finance 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Chief Executive 

County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

Apologies: Cllr.’s Diarmuid Devereux, Barbara-Anne Murphy, Bridín Murphy, John O’Rourke 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

•  The family of Catherine Lynn, mother of Siobhán Lynn, Roads Section.  

•  The family of Kevin Dowler, father of Geraldine Dowler, Machinery Yard. 

•  The  family  of  Mary  Kinsella,  mother  of  former  Councillor  Michael  Kinsella  and  sister  in-law  of 

Councillor Kathleen Codd-Nolan. 

•  The family of Betty Stanley, mother of Liz Stanley, Gorey Municipal District Office and mother– in– 

law of Debbie Stanley, Gorey Municipal District Office. 

•  The family of Senator Billy Fox on the anniversary of his death.  

•  The family of Sean Kavanagh, The Lyre, Milehouse Road, Enniscorthy. 

Congratulations: 

Cathaoirleach J. Fleming congratulated Cllr. Bridín Murphy on the birth of her baby girl. 

Cllr. J. Moore acknowledged the 125th anniversary of the first County Council elections in Ireland on 6th 
April 1899.  

Cllr. J. Owens congratulated all who took part in the Hope and Dream event. 

Cllr. J. Owens congratulated Charlie Dixon on winning the 2024 National BG3 65kg boxing Championship. 

Cllr. G. Laffan congratulated Wexford Bohemians who booked their place in the semi-finals of the LFA Junior 
Cup. 

Cllr. G. Laffan congratulated the Wexford Men’s Senior Footballers who beat Carlow in the Leinster Senior 
football championship first round tie. 

Cllr. A. Browne congratulated all who took part in the Hope and Dream event and Enniscorthy Boxing Club 
who had five winning boxers at the National Championships. 

Cllr. K.Codd Nolan congratulated J.J. Slevin who rode the Tom Gibney-trained Intense Raffles to victory in 
the Irish National at Fairyhouse. 

Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  congratulated  Mick  McCormack  and  his  team  on  their  town  regeneration  plan  being 
selected as the exemplar to follow. 

Cllr. O. Walsh congratulated Blackwater and Oulart the Ballagh camogie clubs on winning the Féile. 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

Cllr. G. Lawlor requested that a letter be sent to Garda Commissioner Drew Harris outlining the Members 
full  support  for  Garda  John  Francis  Ryan  who  is  accused  of  endangerment  of  life  and  three  counts  of 
dangerous driving during the course of his duties. 

Cllr. P. Breen sought an explanation as to why letters with erroneous information about amenity grants were 
issued by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin. Cllr.’s M. Farrell, O. Walsh, and W. Kavanagh all expressed their annoyance 
that incorrect information circulated in Cllr. Ó’Súilleabháin’s letters turned what should be a positive story 
about the amenity grants into a negative story. Cllr.’s Farrell and Walsh highlighted a group who were told 
they were receiving €14,500 when they are actually due to receive €500. 

In response, Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin explained that he was working off two excel spreadsheets which led to 
the error. Cllr.  Ó’Súilleabháin advised that he believed there may have been five groups who were given 
incorrect  information  and  he  has  contacted  them  to  apologise,  and  he  offered  a  further  apology  at  the 
Council meeting. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden it was agreed to suspend standing orders to 
allow NBI make a presentation. 

1. 

Presentation - National Broadband Ireland on the rollout progress 

T.J. Malone, CEO of National Broadband Ireland Deployment gave a presentation outlining NBI’s 
network design and build process, progress made in delivering the national broadband plan, 
broadband services offered by NBI, County Wexford fibre to the home update, and broadband 
connection points and school’s update. Mr. Malone and his team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members. Cathaoirleach J. Fleming thanked Mr. Malone and his team for 
their presentation and addressing the Member’s queries. 

2. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

2.1 County Council Meeting 11th March 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan and seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 11th March 2024.  

Matters arising: 

Cllr. T. Forde highlighted a suggestion at the last Council meeting that a clock should be installed in 
the Chamber to time speakers. 

Cllr. C. Byrne requested that a letter issue to the Minister for Agriculture requesting a meeting with 
a cross party delegation as agreed as the March Council meeting. 

3. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1   Intention to transfer a portion of land at 4 Hillview Close, Irishtown, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden the Council resolved to transfer a 
portion of land at 4 Hillview Close, Irishtown, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms 
set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

3.2    Intention to transfer a portion of land at Graiguemore, Bunclody, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. C. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens the Council resolved to transfer a portion 
of land at Graiguemore, Bunclody, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated.  

3.3    Dispose of a portion of land at Ballylemin, Screen, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty the Council resolved to dispose of a 
portion of land at Ballylemin, Screen, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated.  

3.4    Intention to dispose of property at 10 Peter Street, Wexford Town. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor,  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Bell  the  Council  resolved  to  dispose  of 
property at 10 Peter Street, Wexford Town, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice 
as circulated.  

3.5    Intention to transfer lands at Carricklawn, Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor the Council resolved to transfer lands 
at Carricklawn, Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3.6    Intention to transfer a portion of land at Lambstown, Killurin, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell the Council resolved to transfer a portion 
of land at Lambstown, Killurin, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice 
as circulated.  

3.7    Intention to lease the property at 1 & 2 McDermott Street, Gorey, Co Wexford (Old Credit 
Union Building) 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  J.  Sullivan,  seconded  by  Cllr.  P.  Breen  the  Council  resolved  to  lease  the 
property at 1 & 2 McDermott Street, Gorey, Co Wexford (Old Credit Union Building), in accordance 
with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3.8   Intention to transfer a portion of land at Main Street, Gorey, Co. Wexford.  

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  D.  Kenny,  seconded  by  Cllr.  J.  Sullivan  the  Council  resolved  to  transfer  a 
portion of land at Main Street, Gorey, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated.  

3.9  Intention to dispose of the property at Kyle, Bolaboy, Oulart, Co. Wexford.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

 On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh the Council resolved to dispose of the 
property at Kyle, Bolaboy, Oulart, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated.  

4. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning and 
Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

4.1 LAC2401 - Alterations, Extensions & External Works to The Grain Store, John Street,  New 
Ross, Wexford (A PROTECTED STRUCTURE - RPS No. NR0143 - NIAH No. 15605016). 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded 
by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for alterations, extensions & external 
works to the Grain Store, John Street, New Ross, Wexford (A protected structure - RPS No. NR0143 
- NIAH No. 15605016) in accordance with the terms of LAC2401, as circulated. 

4.2 LAC2402 – This development involves the protection of approximately 300m of cliff frontage 
at Seaview, Co. Wexford, with integrated ramp access to the beach. This protection consists of 
rock armour revetment to the existing cliff face. The reinforced concrete ramp will be integrated 
into the rock revetment. This development also consists of a low earth mound on the cliff crest 
immediately behind the revetment works. A small vehicle turning area is included, adjacent to 
the existing access road at the top of the ramp at Seaview Beach, Seaview, Co. Wexford. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded 
by Cllr. G. Carthy, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the protection of approximately 
300m of cliff frontage at Seaview, Co. Wexford, with integrated ramp access to the beach. This 
protection consists of rock armour revetment to the existing cliff face. The reinforced concrete 
ramp will be integrated into the rock revetment. This development also consists of a low earth 
mound on the cliff crest immediately behind the revetment works. A small vehicle turning area is 
included, adjacent to the existing access road at the top of the ramp at Seaview Beach, Seaview, Co. 
Wexford in accordance with the terms of LAC2402, as circulated. 

5. 

Adoption of the 2024 – 2029 Local Economic and Community Plan (LECP), including the initial 2-
year implementation plan including a statement stating that the LECP aligns with the County 
Development Plan. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, the Council resolved to adopt 
the 2024 – 2029 Local Economic and Community Plan (LECP), including the initial 2-year 
implementation plan including a statement stating that the LECP aligns with the County 
Development Plan, as outlined in the circulated memo. 

6. 

3 Year Capital Programme 2024 – 2026 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald, the Council resolved to adopt the 
3 Year Capital Programme 2024 – 2026. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

7. 

Wexford County Council Audit Committee Charter - For Adoption 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald, the Council resolved to adopt the 
Wexford County Council Audit Committee Charter, as circulated. 

8. 

Draft Annual Service Delivery Plan - For Adoption 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, the Council resolved to adopt 
the Draft Annual Service Delivery Plan, as circulated. 

9. 

Invitation for delegation to travel to Dunkerque 1st May, 2024 to 3rd May, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan, the Council resolved to send a 
delegation to Dunkerque from 1st May, 2024 to 3rd May, 2024. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

10. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of queries 
from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

Update on works at the Ahare river and potential automation of warning signal lights. 
Update on proceedings in relation to the odour issue at Ballyminaun. 
Update sought on the defective block redress scheme. 
Issue of coastal erosion at Kilmichael North. 
Request that TII review road safety concerns at the Heritage Park. 
Update sought on N11/N25 road project. 
Update on hookless village leisure centre and its entry in the derelict sites register. 
Clarification sought on what the active travel requirements are for the N11/N25. 
Issue of local authority tenant evictions and perceived difficulties in executing same where 
there is serious damage caused and serious anti-social behaviour. 
Request that a letter be sent to the Minister asking that Wexford be reviewed in terms of its 
potential designation as a rent pressure zone. 
Update on security requirements and provisions for the Fleadh. 
Request that drinking water be provided on Vinegar Hill. 
Request that a shuttle bus service be provided to and from the primary care centre in 
Enniscorthy. 
Update sought on progress being made with contractors in relation to time taken to repair 
street lighting. 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

Request that the Council engage with the EPA in relation to a funding call for research 
projects in relation to coastal erosion. 

Cllr.’s A. Browne and J. Owens left the meeting at this point. 

Timeline for public space works at old Crazy Prices site. 
Are there any plans for a sensory space for the Fleadh? 
Any update on speed limit review process? 
Can funding be accessed to maintain the ballast bank? 
Can we review procurement of goods to identify what is acquired from Israel? 
Status of proposed new lifeboat station for Kilmore. 
Timeline for lights being repaired at Ballygillane roundabout. 
When will contractor commence on Rosslare Europort access road? 
When will work commence on Kilrane to Rosslare Harbour active travel scheme? 
Poor communication between contractor and Úisce Eireann highlighted in relation to water 
outage issue at Ballintlea. 
Issue of potholes at Cullenstown raised and insufficient national funding for road 
maintenance. 
Issue of clients being barred from hostel accommodation. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan the Council resolved to suspend 
standing orders to allow the meeting to continue past 5.30pm. 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

Request that a letter be sent to the Minister outlining the Member’s disapproval at the 
proposal for the Wexford to Dublin rail service. 
Request for road safety works at Starvehall Cross. 
Update on demolition of Murphy Floods building. 
Inclusion of feasibility study for Vinegar Hill in 3-year capital programme was welcomed. 
Clarification sought if Wexford County Council has suspended not essential farm inspections. 
Works on N80 welcomed and request for funding for safety works on Ballycarney junction. 

Cllr.’s L. Kelly, K. Codd Nolan, and G. Lawlor left the meeting at this point. 

Update on progress in relation to the advance factory. 
What workshops will be run around the county for affordable housing? 
Update on hotel site for New Ross. 
Proposal that some Members travel to Government Buildings to protest against roads 
funding for Wexford. 
Request that a letter be sent to the Minister asking that HAP rates for Wexford be reviewed. 
Update sought on St. Waleran’s and Ramsfort sites. 
Timeline for residents of Ballytegan to be provided with an update on road infrastructure. 
How many Croí Conaithe grants have been approved and how many have been paid? 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

• 
• 
• 

Council’s position on farm inspections welcomed. 
Request for presentation on Courtown beach nourishment project. 
Request that TII review safety at Tominearly as well as Tomfarney. 

11. 

Core Strategy Monitoring Report - For Noting 

The Members noted the Core Strategy Monitoring Report, as circulated. 

12.  Minutes of CPG 

12.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 2nd April, 2024 
12.2  Minutes of CPG Meeting 4th March, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved to confirm the  
minutes of the CPG meetings of 4th March and 2nd April. 

13.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting) 

13.1    New Ross Municipal District Meeting –14th February,  2024 & 10th January, 2024 
13.2    Rosslare Municipal District Meeting –  22nd February, 2024  & 17th January, 2024 
13.3    Borough District of Wexford Meeting –  19th February, 2024  & 15th January, 2024   
13.4    Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 19th  February,  2024  & 15thJanuary, 2024 
13.5    Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 19th March, 2024, 20th February, 2024  & 

16th January, 2024 

13.6    Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment SPC Meeting 6th December, 2023 

The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

14. 

Correspondence and Communications 
14.1 Letter from Sligo County Council re motion dated 6th February, 2024 
14.2 Letter from Clare County Council re motion dated 13th March, 2024 
14.3  Letter from Gorey CS Student Council dated 11th March, 2024 
14.4  Letter from Westmeath County Council re motion dated 2nd April, 2024 

The Members noted the correspondence and communications, as circulated. 

15. 

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  
15.1    List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald, the Council approved 
attendance for the following conferences and training: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.04.24 

Training: 

13/14 March  2024 Annual Suck Valley Way Training Conference “The Rise of Loneliness on the 

Emerald Isle” – Roscommon. Fee €130. 

8/10 April 

Metrics of Success – Securing Real Progress Toward Sustainable Buildings – The 
Riverside Hotel, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

Conference: 

18/19 April 

Local Government Tourism Conference – Killashee House Hotel, Naas, Co. Kildare. 
Fee €220. 

15.2    Councillor’s Conference Reports 
China Delegation Report – February, 2024  
New York Delegation Report – March 2024  
Harteford Delegation Report – March 2024 
Savannah Delegation Report – March 2024 

The Members noted the delegation reports, as circulated. 

16. 

Deferred Notices of Motion – County Council Meeting 12th February, 2024 

This agenda item was not taken. 

17. 

Deferred Notices of Motion County Council Meeting 11th March, 2024 

This agenda item was not taken. 

18. 

Notices of Motion 

This agenda item was not taken. 

19. 

Any Other Business. 

There was no other business. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Bealtaine, 2024. 

________________________  

________________________ 

Cllr. John Fleming 

Cathaoirleach  

Michael Drea,  

County Secretary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
