 County Council Meeting 11.11.19 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 11th November, 2019 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In The Chair: 

Councillor M. Sheehan 

Councillors:  

P. Barden; 
C. Byrne;  
A. Connick; 
J. Fleming; 
W. Kavanagh; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Owens; 
M. Whelan. 

M. Bell; 
P. Breen; 
G. Carthy;   J. Codd; 
D. Devereux; A. Donohoe;   
J. Hegarty; 
T. Forde; 
D. Kenny; 
L. Kelly; 
J. Moore; 
B. Murphy; 
F. Staples;  J. Sullivan; 

A. Browne; 
K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Laffan; 
F. O’ Súilleabháin; 
O. Walsh; 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive. 
T. Larkin; E. Hore, J. Carley, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, Meetings Administrator; 
Ms. Catherine Atkinson, Music Generation 
Ms. Liz Burns, Arts Officer. 

Apologies:   

Cllr’s.  M. Byrne; G. Lawlor; B.A. Murphy; J. O’Rourke; 

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed the Members of the public sitting in the public gallery 
and advised them of the procedures for members of the public at Council Meetings. In particular, 
he emphasised that members of the public should not interact with Members of the Council nor 
should the Council Meeting itself be interrupted. 

1.  Presentation to the Council – Music Generation 

Catherine Atkinson, Music Generation was introduced by the Director of Services J. Carley and 
she gave the presentation to the Members of the Council regarding the Music Generation 
Programme and the work it has been doing over the last year. 

The programme is a singing, vocal and instrumental programme and a number of Members 
thanked Music Generation for the work they had done in County Wexford and asked a number of 
questions and referred to the help given to various organisations involved in music in County 
Wexford.  In particular it was noted that Music Generation is giving young people the opportunity to 
try music and song writing and to express themselves.   

Many of the Councillors gave their full support to Music Generation.  It was highlighted how much 
tradition is in Wexford for music and that the Arts Officer finished the item by thanking the 
Members for their full support for the programme and thanked Catherine Atkinson who is 
responsible for delivery of the programme in County Wexford.  She also thanked the Members for 
their good wishes and thanks for the work that had been done to date. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.11.19 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Art Foley, Enniscorthy. 
  The family of Betty Mason 
  The family of Bridget Harpur 
  The family of Tom Carthy, Crossabeg 
  The Murphy family of New Ross 
  The Merrigan family of New Ross 
  The family of Kevin Swords who had been a Member of Gorey Town Commissioners 
  The family of Ann Williams, mother-in-law of Anthony Nolan, Water Services and Paula 

Shortall, Finance Dept 

  The family of Sheila Tyrrell mother of Margo Murphy, Motor Tax Dept 
  The family of Joe Buckley father of Ann O’Sullivan, Machinery Yard 
  The family of Frances Redmond, mother of Siobhan Redmond, IT/Core Dept 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The O’Flahery Fishing family on their new trawler which entered Kilmore Quay recently 
  The Wexford Youths Ladies who won the final recently 
  Michelle O’Neill 
  Bunclody Football Team 
  St. Martins Senior Hurling Team 
  St. Martin’s Camogie Team who are in the Leinster Semi Final 
  Monamolin GAA Club who have now returned to the senior league of GAA 
  The Ballycullane Ploughing who recently won 5 All Ireland Finals 
  The Castletown team who won the County Senior Football Final 2019 
  Michelle Casserely who recently won the ladies kick boxing competition 
  Alex Currid who recently won a billiards competition 
  Deirdre Juke who played recently on the Irish Women’s Hockey Team 
  Cllr Jim Moore congratulated Mr. P. O’Gorman who was leaving Wexford County Council to 

take up a position of Director of Services in Carlow County Council.  He offered his best wishes 
to Padraig and noted the good work he had done in the Housing Dept of WCC. 

The Cathaoirleach then advised that Tom Boyle who is an 82 year old man who had done his 
leaving cert recently will received a presentation at the launch of the Science Fair on Saturday 
next. 

2.  Confirmation of Minutes 

2.1 County Council Meeting – 14th October, 2019. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  K.  Codd  Nolan  seconded  by  Cllr.  W.  Kavanagh  and  agreed  by  all,  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.11.19 

2.2 Special County Council Meeting – 9th September, 2019. (Amended) 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh and agreed by all, the Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

During consideration of the minutes Cllr. J. Codd raised an issue with regard to information 
received about the Anne Street development.  He wished to make a statement to be noted in the 
minutes.  The Director of Services Eddie Taaffe advised that statements are not noted in the 
minutes and that the minutes should only reflect decisions of the Council taken at the meeting. 

The Cathaoirleach asked that Cllr. Codd submit the statement to the County Secretary. 

3. Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1 Proposed disposal of property at Cois Mara, Rosslare Strand. 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh seconded by Cllr. D. Devereux, the proposed disposal was 
agreed by the Council. 

3.2 Proposed disposal of land at Seamount, Ardamine, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the proposed disposal was 
agreed by the Council. 

3.3 Proposed disposal of a property 71 Ard Alainn, Castlebridge, Co. Wexford.  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Bell seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes, the proposed disposal was agreed 
by the Council. 

4.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

LAC 1906 Refurbishment and upgrade a fire damaged house and rebuild a 2 bedroom 
semi-detached bungalow along with auxiliary and associated site works at No. 21 St. 
Martin’s Park, Ballycullane, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

Having  considered  the  proposed  development  and  the  Chief  Executive’s Report in  relation  to 
same  as  circulated,  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Whelan  seconded  by  Cllr.  J.  Fleming  the 
Members agreed that the development proceed as proposed. 

LAC 1907 Proposed Development of a single storey detached dwelling at Glasganny 
(E.D. Ardcavan), Co. Wexford. 

Having  considered  the  proposed  development  and  the  Chief  Executive’s Report in  relation  to 
same as circulated, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Bell seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy the Members 
agreed that the development proceed as proposed. 

5.  Proposed Amendments to Standing Orders 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proposed amendments to Standing Orders as circulated to the meeting were proposed by Cllr. 
M. Farrell seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all. 

 County Council Meeting 11.11.19 

6.  Annual Report 2018 

On the proposal of Cllr. D. Devereux seconded by Cllr. M. Bell the Members approved the Annual 
Report 2018 as submitted to the meeting.  Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services,  advised that Brian 
McDonald one of our own staff had done the design for the Annual Report and put a lot of effort 
into the publication of same.  

7.  Ratification of Representatives to SPC’s 

A list of nominations from national pillars and the PPN had been circulated to the Members for 
their ratification.  On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the list submitted 
was then formally ratified.  

8.  Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group was proposed by Cllr. A. Donohoe seconded by Cllr. M. 
Farrell. 

9.  Town and Village Renewal Programme 2019 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, circulated a report to the Members.  He noted that funding had 
been sought by Wexford County Council for 12 projects and that that 5 of those 12 had been 
successful in receiving funding.  The 5 were as set out in his report, this was noted by the 
Members. 

The Cathaoirleach noted that investment of this nature is good for the whole county.  Cllr. M. 
Farrell thanked Ger Mackey and Sean Kavanagh of the Community Department for the work they 
had put into the preparation of the submission for Kilmuckridge Community Centre. 

10. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Executive and Members of 
the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report including the 
following: 

  Urgent works required on national roads near Clonroche 
  Update on Market House in Gorey 
  Update on Templeshannon Regeneration Project 
  Update on Skateboard Park in the Min Ryan Park 
  Update on Trail to Curracloe 
  Figures relating to children on the homeless list 
  Update on Dun Mhuire 
  Taking in Charge of Estates 
  Update on Enniscorthy Technology Park 
  Outage at the western end of Gorey town on bank holiday weekend 
  Upgrading of Redmond Park 
  Wexford Rosslare Greenway Update 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.11.19 

  Timeline for County Development Plan 
  Funding for Carrigfoyle Activity Centre 
  Use of the old Garda Station in Wexford Town 

11. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training 

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. 
J. Sullivan and agreed by all.  

12. Minutes of Meetings: 

12.1 Enniscorthy Municipal District 16.09.19 
12.2 Gorey Municipal District 17.09.19 
12.3 New Ross Municipal District 11.09.19 
12.4 Wexford Borough District 16.09.19 

On the proposal of Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. A. Connick and agreed by Members present 
the Minutes outlined above were noted and approved. 

13. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted and approved. 

14. Correspondence and Communications 

  Correspondence from Minister Simon Harris regarding palliative care for children. 

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the Members. 

15. Notices of Motion 

15.1Cllr. Fionntán OSúilleabháin 

"That Wexford County Council will exercise its duty of responsibility to act in the best interest of 
the health and  safety of  the people  and  the environment  of  County Wexford  in  relation  to  5G 
technology and: 

1.  That  Wexford  County  Council  call  on  ComReg  to  stop  the  licensing  of  this  roll  out  with 
immediate effect. 

2. That  we  call  on the  Minister for Communications,  Climate  Change  and the Environment  to 
establish  the facts  about  the  radiation  impact  of  5G  technology  on  human and  environmental 
health, based upon up-to-date, 5G specific, scientific, peer-reviewed studies from independent 
global resources-the reports of which, are to be presented to the Oireachtas for consideration. 

This  council  further  notes  that  on  18th  April  2019,  the  advisory  group  of  the  International 
Agency  for  Research  on  Cancer  (IARC)  of  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  released 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.11.19 

new recommendations to reassess as a “High Priority” the cancer risks of radiofrequency (RF) 
radiation between 2020–2024.  

The  IARC  advisory  group  of  29  scientists  from  18  countries  met  in  March,  2019.  Many 
WHO/IARC scientists have publicly stated the classification will likely strengthen to a Category 
1 risk, due to the (NTI ) National Toxicology Program study”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes.  
Following a wide ranging discussion an amendment to the motion was proposed by Cllr. M. 
Farrell and seconded by Cllr. A. Connick that the matter be referred to the Climate Change, 
Biodiversity and Environment SPC and this was agreed by all. 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, advised that for the purposes of planning that the Council 
would abide by guidelines issued by the Minister which could be informed by the HSE or the 
EPA. 

Mr. E. Taaffe advised that the Broadband Officer for the Council at a recent seminar there was 
a presentation from the EPA and that the function with regard to non-ionising radiation such as 
5G is with the EPA and he then read out the role of the EPA from their website which is in 
contradiction to the information in the notice of motion. 

At this point an issue was brought up with regard to Members texting or using social media to 
pass on information outside the Council Chamber to other people.  The Cathaoirleach asked 
that any information that had been put up on social media should now be removed by the 
Member involved. 

15.2 Cllr. Tom Forde 

"We ask that this Council become, and promote itself as, a Living Wage employer and call on 
government to   
1. recognise the huge contribution low paid workers make to the Irish economy;  
2. reverse their decision not to increase the national minimum wage;  
3. introduce a Living Wage (set by the Living Wage Technical Group) of €12.30 per hour in 
2020." 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. J. Owens.   

The Chief Executive advised that Wexford County Council takes on students and lifeguards in 
the summer and that these are seasonal staff paid in accordance with national guidelines. 

The Director of Services for Human Resources Eddie Taaffe advised that this motion may 
prohibit taking on of students and lifeguards if the rates do not coincide.  He also noted that 
WCC is not in a position to change the scale which is a national scale. 

Following this discussion the proposer Cllr. T. Forde accepted the views of the Director and 
advised that No. 3 would be removed from the motion.  

Following a vote the motion was then defeated.  

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15.3 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

       Smoky Coal Ban  

 Noting 

 County Council Meeting 11.11.19 

(i) the seriously damaging effects on health and the environment of the continued burning of 
smoky coal 
(ii) the motion carried by this Council in March, 2015 seeking to prohibit the burning of 
smoky coals in the County; 
(iii) the announcement in October, 2015 by then Minister, Alan Kelly, of the Government's 
intention to proceed with a nationwide ban; 
(iv) the further motion carried by this Council in March, 2017, expressing concern at the 
failure of Government to proceed with this ban and the continued failure since; 
(v) the call in that motion in March 2017 for the introduction of this ban within six months; 
(vi) the continued evidence of the damage caused by the burning of smoky fuels being 
provided by the Council's own assessments; 
(vii) the Council’s unanimous agreement to a motion in April introduce and enforce a 
Countywide ban on the sale and use of smoky coals to take effect on 1st May 2019 and to 
provide an information campaign to consumers on the dangers of poor air quality and on 
this ban; 
(viii) the priority given to tackling this issue as part of the new Council’s Civic Agreement; 
(ix) the failure of Government to take this issue sufficiently seriously and its lack of action in 
dealing with poor air quality, and their prohibition on us taking direct action on this matter, 

Wexford County Council expresses no confidence in the Minister for Communications, 
Climate Change and the Environment and his officials in their handling of ensuring better air 
quality through the banning of the sale and burning of smoky coals, 

And agrees to seek legal advice on the Minister’s action in preventing us from implementing 
our own Countywide ban, such advice to be presented to the Council at our December 
meeting for consideration”. 

As Councillor M. Byrne was not in attendance this motion was not taken however the 
Director for Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment J. Carley advised that this matter 
had been advised to the SPC for further discussion.  

15.4 Cllr. Michael Sheehan, Cathaoirleach 

“That this Council expresses it’s dismay at the conditions,  overcrowding and treatment of 
patients at the Psychiatric Unit of UHW and calls on the Minister for Health to apologise to 
the frontline staff, patients and their families for the conditions.  

Furthermore, this Council calls on the HSE to conduct a full investigation and to make 
resources available to ensure age appropriate accommodation and beds for patients in the 
area.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and 
agreed by all. 

AT 17.03 Cllr. L. McDonald left the meeting. 

7 

 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.11.19 

15.5 Cllr. Davy Hynes: 

“This council supports the call by former ministers for drugs re ‘The National Drugs Strategy 
which is  danger of collapse’ and the urgent need for extra  support and funding to the 
Drugs and Alcohol Task  Forces at this time when communities are threatened by this 
growing scourge.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin and 
agreed by all. 

15.6 Cllr. Leonard Kelly: 

“Early intervention is key to addressing Mental Health issues. So why are CAMHS Wexford 
South still operating out of Slaney House, a building that was deemed not fit for purpose in 
2009? And why are there multiple vacancies across the specialist staff required to provide 
the Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services required by some of our most vulnerable 
young people. And what is the plan, with timelines to fill these vacancies? 

I call on the Minister for Health and the HSE to provide answers to these questions.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly seconded by Cllr. Forde.  Following 
discussion the motion was amended to read “WCC write to the Minister for Health and the 
HSE to provide the answers to these questions”. 

16. Any Other Business   

Cllr. J. Fleming brought up the issue of free parking in the main towns during the Christmas period 
and it was agreed this matter will be referred to the Municipal Districts to discuss. 

Cllr. G. Carthy wished good luck to the Council Members standing in the by election which is 
taking place at the end of the month. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that the Science Festival and Environmental Awards are two events 
coming up in the near future. 

Cllr. J. Moore brought up the matter of the Council operating in-committee and this issue is to be 
referred to the next meeting of the Protocol Committee.  

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

Daingithe ar an 9ú la de Nollaig, 2019. 

_______________________  
County Secretary 

________________________ 

Cathaoirleach 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
