County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 12 February, 2018 – 2.00 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

M. Byrne 
P. Breen 
T. Dempsey;   
A. Connick 
J. Fleming  
W. Fitzharris   
L. McDonald   
G. Lawlor; 
B.A .Murphy    
M. Murphy; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin  M. Roche; 
J. Sullivan; 
F. Staples 
P. Kavanagh  
R. Ireton 

G. Carthy 
A. Donohoe,   
D. Hynes 
J. Moore 
J. Mythen 
M. Sheehan   
J. O’Rourke   
M. Whelan 

K. Codd-Nolan  
M. Farrell 
T. Forde 
O. O’Connell 
L. O’Brien 
O. Walsh 
Tony Walsh 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, A/Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. D. Minogue, Senior Executive Officer 

Apologies:   

Councillors:    
Officials: 

Willie Kavanagh, Keith Doyle 
Mr. John Carley, Director of Services 
Mr. Pat Collins, County Secretary 

1. 

Healthy Cities and County  

Ms.  Fiona  Donovan,  National  Healthy  Cities  and  Counties  Coordinator  and  Dr.  Cate 
Hartigan,  Head  of  Health  Promotion  and  Improvement  at  the  HSE  attended  the  meeting 
and presented a Report to the Members in PowerPoint format.  

There  followed  a  Question  and  Answer  session  with  comments  and  queries  from  the 
Members responded to by Ms. Donovan and Dr. Hartigan. 

The  Cathaoirleach  thanked  Ms.  Donovan  and  Dr.  Hartigan  for  their  professional  and 
comprehensive presentation. Ms. Donovan and Dr. Hartigan then withdrew. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

2.  

Bucanier Project 

Mr.  Tom  Banville,  Head  of  Enterprise  at  Wexford  County  Council  and  Ms.  Siobhan 
Gethings,  Bucanier  Project  Officer  attended  the  meeting  and  presented  a  Report  to  the 
Members  in  PowerPoint  format,  which  outlined  the  main  purpose  and  objectives  of  the 
Bucanier Project. 

There  followed  a  Question  and  Answer  session  with  comments  and  queries  from  the 
Members responded to by Mr. Banville and Ms. Gethings. 

The  Cathaoirleach 
presentation. Mr. Banville and Ms. Gethings then withdrew. 

thanked  Mr.  Banville  and  Ms.  Gethings 

for 

their 

informative 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  Ms. Rita Poole, Mother of Mr. Leonard Poole, Assistant Resident Engineer, WCC 
  Ms. Dorothy Donovan, Mother of Mr. Donal Donovan, Community Warden, WCC 
  Mr. Patrick McGuire, Father of Ms. Tracey McGuire, Staff Officer, WCC 
  Mr. Philip Casey, Irish Poet and Author 
  Mr. William Codd, Churchland Stables, Mayglass 
  Ms. Sue Furlong, County Wexford School of Music 
  Mr. Barry Purcell, Foulksmills 
  Mr. Dermot (Derry) Fitzgerald, New Ross 

Vóta Comhghairdeas 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Wexford Sinfonia 
  Wexford ICA  
  St. Patrick’s Fife and Drum Band   
  Fethard St. Mogue’s GAA   

  Councillor Larry O’Brien 

  Kilenerin GAA 

celebrating 25 years of its existence 
celebrating 75 years of its existence 
celebrating 25 years of its existence 
following their gallant performance and 
narrow  defeat  in the  recent  AIB  All-Ireland 
Club Junior Hurling Final.  
recently elected as Chairman of the 
Southern Assembly 

following their gallant performance and 
narrow  defeat  in  the  recent  AIB  GAA 
Intermediate  Club 
Football  All-Ireland 
Championship Semi-Final 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

3. 

Confirmation of Minutes:  

3.1  County Council Meeting - 8th January, 2018. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  Malcolm  Byrne,  Seconded  by  Councillor  Anthony  Connick  and 
agreed. 

3.2  Matters Arising 

Cllr. J. Mythen requested an amendment to the “Votes of Sympathy” portion of the Minutes 
to reflect the address of the late Mr. Sean Chapman as Enniscorthy. 

4. 

Proposed  disposal  of  land  under  Section  183  of  the  Local  Government  Act 
2001:  

4.1  Proposed  lease  of  land  at  Creagh  Gorey  to  the  Trustees  of  Gorey  Hockey 
Club. 

The Council considered the Notice circulated under Section 183 of the Local Government 
Act. 

In reply to a query from the Members, Mr. Tony Larkin, Director of Services, advised that 
following  transfer, the lands  must  continue  to  be  used  for the  purposes  as  set  out  in  the 
lease.  

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive assured the Members that the proposed disposal would 
not adversely impact the Council’s social housing programme in the Gorey district. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  Fionntáin  ÓSuilleabháin,  seconded  by  Councillor  Anthony 
Donohoe and agreed by all, the proposed disposal was agreed. 

5. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, 
of the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended):  

5.1   LAC1709 – Proposed development of 7 no. housing units with associated site 
works at Coolcotts, Wexford. 

The Council considered the Report of the Chief Executive on the proposed development. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  Malcolm  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  Davy  Hynes  and 
agreed  by  all,  it  was  agreed  that  the  proposed  development  proceed  as  proposed  in  the 
Report. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 

2016 Audited Accounts and Statutory Audit Report 

The Members considered the Report as circulated and noted its contents. 

County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

7.         Borrowing Requirements 

Ms.  Annette  O’Neill,  Head  of  Finance  presented  a  comprehensive  report  (previously 
circulated) to the Council outlining the Councils borrowing requirements under a number of 
headings now required to progress the proposed capital programme.  

The Report summarised the current borrowing requirements as follows: 

House Loan Programme 
Public Lighting  
Economic and Community Development  
Total Anticipated Borrowing Requirement 

€5,500,000 
€5,000,000 
€40,000,000 
€50,500,000 

In  response  to  Members  queries,  Ms.  O  Neill  advised  that  the  borrowings  will  be  drawn 
down in stages as the Programme progress. Repayment periods will range from 20 to 25 
years with annual repayments estimated to peak at between €1.8m and €2m.  

Ms. O’Neill advised that the increase in LPT and Commercial Rates in 2018 will facilitate 
the budgetary provisions for the resulting loan charges. 

In accordance with Section 106 of the Local Government Act 2001, and on the proposal of 
Councillor Sheehan, seconded by Councilor Byrne, the Members unanimously resolved to 
borrow €50.50 Million as outlined in the Report. 

8. 

Annual Service Delivery Plans 2017 

The Members noted the Report as circulated. 

It  was  agreed  that  the  Council’s  Homelessness  Protocol  will  be  circulated  to  all  Elected 
Members for their information. 

9. 

Draft Annual Service Delivery Plan 2018 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Director of Services advised the Members that the Wexford 2018 Draft 
Service Delivery Plan in currently under preparation and will shortly be brought before the 
Members for their consideration  

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

10.  Ambassador Programme 

An Cathaoirleach, Councillor John Hegarty updated the Members regarding proposals by 
the  Council  to  renew  the  Wexford  Ambassador  Programme.  Councillor  Hegarty  advised 
that a copy of the proposals for the renewed programme will be circulated via ‘Minute Pad” 
to all Members for their information.  

The  Cathaoirleach  further  advised  that  responsibility  for  the  Programme  was  now 
transferred  to  the  Director  of  Corporate  Services  while  the  day-to-day  operation  of  the 
programme is managed by the Council’s Communications Officer. 

The Members welcomed the renewal of the Programme as outlined. 

11.   Ratification  of  Wexford  PPN  Representatives  to  Committees  of  Wexford 

County Council 

The  Members  were  notified  of  the  following  recent  appointments  by  the  Wexford  Public 
Participation Network to committees of Wexford County Council: 

Committee 
Economic Development 
and Enterprise SPC 
Joint Policing 
Committee 
Courtown / Riverchapel 
Local Policing Fora 

Position 
PPN Social Inclusion 
Representative 
PPN Community and 
Voluntary Representatives 
PPN Community and 
Voluntary Representative 

Representative 

Ms. Mary B. O'Leary 

Ms. Tina Smith 
Mr. David Doyle 

Mr. Tony Clyne 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  Ger  Carthy,  seconded  by  Councillor  Willie  Fitzharris,  the 
Members ratified the above appointments. 

12.  County Wexford Vacant Homes Strategy and Action Plan 2018 - 2021 

Mr. Padraig O’Gorman, A/Director of Services presented the Plan to the Members for their 
consideration and responded to queries raised. 

The  Members  welcomed  the  Strategy  and  Action  Plan  and  looked  forward  to  its 
implementation. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

13.  Proposed Amendment to Article 53 and 54 of Standing Orders 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe presented the proposed amendments, as recommended by the Protocol 
Committee. 

13.1  Article 53 

Following discussion, it was agreed to further amend the proposed wording of Article 53 as 
follows: 

53.  No cameras of any kind, or sound recording or communication equipment, or social 

media may be used during “in committee” meetings of Wexford County Council. 

This  includes  “in  committee”  meetings  of  the  Members  of  Gorey,  New  Ross  and 
Enniscorthy  Municipal  Districts  and  Wexford  Borough  District  and  also  extends  to 
“in committee” meetings of committees of Wexford County Council. 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  Oisín  O’’Connell,  seconded  by  Councillor  John 
Fleming,  the  Members  unanimously  agreed  to  amend  Article  53  of  the  Standing 
Orders as outlined above. 

13.2  Article 54 

In  view  of  the  discussion  that  took  place  in  relation  to  Article  53,  and  the  resulting 
amendment of that Article as described above, the proposal to amend Article 54 was not 
considered by the Members at this time. 

Councillors John O’Rourke and Mick Roche made their apologies to the Cathaoirleach and 
left the meeting at this point. 

14.  Report of Corporate Policy Group 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  Anthony  Connick,  seconded  by  Councillor  Tony  Dempsey 
the  Members  approved  the  Minutes  of  the  Meeting  of  the  Corporate  Policy  Group  of 
Monday, 5 February, 2018. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

15.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The  monthly  Management  Report  of  the  Chief  Executive  prepared  under  Section  136  of 
the LG Act 2001 in respect the month of January 2018 was presented to the Members and 
considered by them. 

The  Chief  Executive  and  members  of  the  Management  Team  responded  to  Members 
queries arising from the Report, including the following: 

15.1  National Broadband Rollout 

The Chief Executive advised that the Council identifies the provision of fibre Broadband in 
the  four  main  towns  as  a  key  element  of  the  Council’s  Economic  and  Community 
Investment Programme.  

The  Council  will  await  the  outcome  of  the  current  tender  process  regarding  rural 
broadband  provision,  before  considering  how  it  might  best  assist  in  the  provision  of 
broadband to other parts of the county. 

15.2  Litter Management 

The  Members  expressed  concern  regarding  the  scale  of  illegal  dumping  and  asked  that 
the Council consider a range of measures, particularly in the enforcement area, to combat 
the problem. 

It was agreed to consider the impact (if any) of the Council’s recently introduced recycling 
charge  on  quantities  of  materials  being  recycling  and  to  report  to  the  Members  on  the 
findings. 

Councillor John Fleming made his apologies to the Cathaoirleach and left the meeting at 
this point. 

15.3  “Old” Wexford Hospital 

In response to Members concern regarding the dilapidated nature of the building, Mr. Tony 
Larkin,  Director  of  Services  advised  that  the  building’s  current  designation  as  of 
architectural importance was not necessarily a barrier to its redevelopment. He undertook 
to discuss the matter with the building’s owners, the HSE at an early opportunity. 

15.4  Roundabout under construction at junction of Campile Road and N25 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services advised that notwithstanding the complexities and 
difficulties  of  managing  traffic  during  the  construction  of  a  large-scale  roundabout  on  a 
traffic 
heavily-trafficked  national 
management issues at the site and would seek to address these as a matter of urgency in 
cooperation with the contractor. 

the  Council  acknowledged 

the  existing 

route, 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

16.  Conferences / Training 

The  Members  considered  the  list  of  conferences  and  training  events  as  circulated, 
including an invitation from Mayor of Fleurus to Wexford Borough District  

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  M.  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  BA  Murphy  the  Council 
unanimously approved all events for attendance. 

17.    Minutes of Meetings: 

The following Minutes were considered for adoption: 

17.1   Gorey Municipal District 19.12.17 
17.2   New Ross Municipal District 13.12.17 
17.3   Borough District of Wexford 18.12.17 
17.4   Third Level Education Committee Meeting 08.01.17 
17.5   Planning and Building Control SPC Meeting 30.11.17 
17.6  Protocol Committee Meeting 05.02.17 

Proposed by Councillor B.A. Murphy, seconded by Councillor P. Breen and agreed. 

Councillor  T.  Forde  queried  the  recommendation  of  the  Protocol  Committee  regarding 
lobbying  in  respect  of  Motions  to  be  put  before  the  Council.  It  was  clarified  that  the 
proposal  sought  to  discourage  lobbying  before  the  Elected  Members  has  opportunity  to 
see and review a Notice of Motion. 

18.  Notices of Motion: 

18.1  Cllr. J. Mythen: 

“That this Council calls on the Irish Government to ratify the U.N. Convention on the 
rights of persons with disabilities” 

Acknowledging, Ireland is the only E.U. Country that hasn’t ratified the U.N.C.R.P.D. 

Acknowledging that there are 20,134 people with disabilities in Co. Wexford (14% of 
the population) with 528 on the social housing list. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  J.  Mythen,  seconded  by  Councillor  D.  Hynes,  and  agreed 
unanimously  

Suspension of Standing Orders 

It being 5.30pm, the Council considered suspending Standing Orders until 6.00pm to allow 
the meeting to continue 

Proposed by Councillor M. Sheehan, seconded by Councillor P. Kavanagh and agreed. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

18.2   Cllr. F. Ó’ Súilleabháin: 

"Wexford County Council notes that Irish Rail plans to change to a hybrid fleet and 
extend  the  Dart  network  northwards  to  Balbriggan  or  westwards  to  Maynooth.  It 
further notes that there is no mention of any extension south of Bray.  

This  Council  calls  on  Irish  Rail  to  include  the  line  south  of  Bray  in  its  planned 
extension  of  the  Dart  network,  which  would  facilitate  the  many  daily  commuters 
from counties Wicklow and Wexford." 

In proposing the Motion, Councillor ÓSuilleabháin amended it to read as follows 

"Wexford County Council notes that Irish Rail plans to change to a hybrid fleet and extend 
the Dart network northwards to Balbriggan or westwards to Maynooth. It further notes that 
there is no mention of any upgrade south of Bray.  

This Council calls on Irish Rail to include the line south of Bray in its planned  upgrade of 
the Dart network, which would facilitate the many daily commuters from counties Wicklow 
and Wexford." 

Proposed  by  Councillor  F.  ÓSuilleabháin,  seconded  by  Councillor  J.  Moore,  and  agreed 
unanimously.  

At  the  suggestion  of  Councillor  J.  Moore,  the  Council  agreed  to  reference  the  Council’s 
recent  submission  to  Irish  Rail  in  any  correspondence  with  Irish  Rail  arising  from  this 
Motion. 

18.3   Cllr. M. Byrne: 

"That, for environmental reasons, Wexford County Council would cease to provide 
single use plastic or paper cups as well as plastic cutlery at County Hall and other 
Council premises and require contractors not to use such items". 

Upon discussion, the Members agreed that the use of bio-degradable single-use cups is 
not considered to be in conflict with the Motion. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  M.  Byrne,  seconded  by  Councillor  D.  Hynes,  and  agreed 
unanimously. 

18.4   Cllr. G. Lawlor: 

“Wexford  County  Council,  whilst  acknowledging  some  good  elements  to  the 
Government’s  ‘Rebuilding  Ireland  Homeloans  Scheme’,  calls  on  Minister  Eoghan 
Murphy to revisit the deposit requirement. The scheme allows borrowers to borrow 
up to 90% leaving a 10% deposit requirement. This council believes this figure to be 
too  high  and  urges  the  Minister  to  restore  it  to  the  former  maximum  of  97% 
lending”.  

Proposed  by  Councillor  G.  Lawlor,  seconded  by  Councillor  M.  Sheehan,  and  agreed 
unanimously.  

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

18.5   Cllr. J. Sullivan: 

“That  this  Council  calls  on  Minister  Eoghan  Murphy  to  waive  the  10%  deposit 
charge on the new 2% interest Mortgage Loans, in favour of a 3% deposit along with 
verifiable  records  from  a  financial  institution  (eg.  Bank  statement/direct  debit 
records) showing 3 years consistent rent payments of the same value or more of the 
proposed mortgage monthly repayments”. 

Proposed  by  Councillor  J.  Sullivan  seconded  by  Councillor  M.  Sheehan,  and  agreed 
unanimously.  

18.6   Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“The  Rebuilding Ireland Home  Loan,  recently  announced and came  into effect this 
month,   which  is  welcomed   as  a  low  interest  rate,    fixed  term  loan  but  the  10  % 
deposit  will  put  it  out  of  reach  of  the  very  people  it  seeks  to  support  in  acquiring 
their  first  home.  The  Minister  needs  to  urgently  address  this  issue  and  allow  the 
same deposit terms that the current LA mortgage allows for”.   

Proposed  by  Councillor  D.  Hynes,  seconded  by  Councillor  M.  Sheehan,  and  agreed 
unanimously.  

18.7   Cllr. M. Roche; Cllr. J. Mythen; Cllr. O. O’Connell; Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabhain; Cllr. 
T. Forde: 

“That  this  Council recognises  that  homes  to  rent  and  to  purchase  are  becoming 
increasingly unaffordable and calls on Government to: 

immediately introduce ambitious affordable rental and purchase housing schemes 
led by Local Authorities, and where appropriate, Approved Housing Bodies and 
Housing Co-operatives with clear annual targets for all local authorities and  

design the Home Building Finance Ireland fund to prioritise loan finance to small 
and medium sized builders participating in Council led affordable housing 
schemes”.  

Proposed  by  Councillor  M.  Roche,  seconded  by  Councillor  J.  Mythen  and  agreed 
unanimously.  

Councillor Tony Dempsey made his apologies to the Cathaoirleach and left the meeting at 
this point 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

18.8   Cllr. T. Forde: 

"I propose that Wexford County Council write to Minister for Education, Richard 
Bruton, urging him to accelerate the provision of a new school building for Wexford 
Educate Together National School, which has been identified as a school that is to 
benefit from the capital investment programme". 

On the proposal of Councillor J. Moore, seconded by Councillor G. Lawlor, and noting no 
objection from Councillor T. Forde, it was agreed to amend the Motion as follows: 

Wexford  County  Council  shall  write  to  Minister  for  Education,  Richard  Bruton, 
urging  him  to  accelerate  the  provision  of  all  schools  in  County  Wexford  that  have 
been identified for investment under the Schools Capital Investment Programme". 

Proposed  by  Councillor  T.  Forde,  seconded  by  Councillor  G.  Lawlor,  and  agreed 
unanimously.  

18.9   Cllr. M. Murphy: 

“I call on Wexford County Council to put a plan in place to establish "Dog Free Zones" in 
our urban centers, in an attempt to deal with the issue of dog fouling. Develop a model 
possibly using Wexford town first, to be rolled out to the other urban centers later”. 

Councillor  M.  Murphy  agreed  to  withdraw  the  Motion,  pending  the  development  of  an 
action plan by the Council to address the issue of dog fouling in County Wexford 

18.10  Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“This  Council  calls  on  the  Dept  of  Justice  to  insure  that  the  'Spent  convictions' 
under  the  'Criminal  Justice  (Spent  convictions  and  Certain  Disclosures)  Act  2016, 
that the measures are followed through for people who are applying for employment 
and are need Garda vetting” 

The meeting time being expired, Councillor D. Hynes suggested he withdraw this Motion, 
and re-present it at the next monthly meeting of Wexford County Council, where adequate 
time could be allotted to its proper consideration. This was agreed. 

19.  Sealing of Documents 

Proposed  by  Councillor  L.  O’Brien,  seconded  by  Councillor  M.  Sheehan,  and  agreed 
unanimously.  

20.  Correspondence and Communications 

The Members noted receipt of the correspondence as circulated. 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21.  Any Other Business   

None. 

County Council Meeting 12.02.18 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Márta, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

12 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
