County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held Monday 13 June 2022 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.45pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. B. A. Murphy Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 
(on line) 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

BELL 

MAURA 
(on-line) 

MOORE 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

JIM 
(on-line) 
BRIDIN 
(on-line) 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

CARTHY 

GER 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

KELLY 

LEONARD 
(on-line) 

STAPLES 

FRANK 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WHELAN 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 
(on-line) 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Liz. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. B. Galvin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Apologies: 

Councillors: 

J. Codd,  

Page 1 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 

County Council Meeting 9th May, 2022  

County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh, the Council 
resolved to confirm the Minutes of the Meeting of Wexford County Council of 9th 
May 2022 

1.2.1   Matters Arising 

It was agreed that the above Minutes were to be amended to reflect that 
the Council has resolved to appoint Cllr. F. Staples (and not Cllr. C. Byrne) to 
the Wexford Rural Water Monitoring Committee. 

In response to a query from Cllr. T. Forde, the County Secretary confirmed 
that Wexford County Council would very much welcome and fully cooperate 
with any enquiry into recent matters between Wexford County Council and 
South East Radio. 

2. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 

Proposed intention to dispose of property at Bessmount, Caim, Enniscorthy, Co.    
 Wexford.  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne, the Council 
resolved to dispose of the above property at Bessmount, Caim in accordance with 
the terms of the S. 183 Notice as circulated 

3. 

CCTV Systems – For Approval 

3.1 

Enniscorthy CCTV 

The County Secretary advised the meeting that a recent change had been made to 
the design of the proposed Enniscorthy CCTV Scheme and a four-lens camera was 
now recommended for installation in the Orchard Peace Park, instead of a three-
lens camera as proposed in the Scheme as previously advised to the Members of 
the Enniscorthy Municipal District.  

The County Secretary recommended that the matter be deferred until such time as 
the Members of the Enniscorthy Municipal District had opportunity to consider 
these revised proposals. The Council so agreed to defer further discussion of the 
matter. 

3.2 

Bunclody CCTV 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne, the Council resolved 
to approve the application by Wexford County Council to An Garda Síochána for 
formal approval of the proposed Bunclody Community CCTV Scheme. 

Page 2 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

4. 

Nominations of PPN Representatives to Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment SPC 

4.1 

Allen Holman to replace Karen Finigan (Community & Voluntary) 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor, the Council 
resolved to approve the nomination of Mr. Allen Holman to the Climate Change, 
Biodiversity & Environment SPC 

4.2 

Kevin Molloy to replace Billy Murphy (Social Inclusion) 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the Council resolved to 
approve the nomination of Mr. Kevin Molloy to the Climate Change, Biodiversity & 
Environment SPC 

5. 

Local Economic Community Plan (LECP) – Appointments to the Advisory Steering Group 

Having considered the Report of the Director of Services, and on the proposal of Cllr. J. 
O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, the Council resolved to approve the 
establishment of an Advisory Steering Group and to further approve the appointments to 
that Advisory Steering Group as recommended in the Report of the Director of Services. 

6. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members in regard to the following: 

Improvement in Water Services infrastructure in Castlebridge, Gorey and Wexford 

•  Wexford Campus of the South East Technological University  
• 
•  Odour concerns and Custom Compost Ballyminaun Hill Gorey 
• 
•  Affordable Housing in St. Waleran’s Gorey 
•  Dredging at Custom Quay Wexford 
• 

Internal Audit Report on the Buy and Renew Scheme 

Issues regarding MICA and PYRITE 

At this point, Cllr. F. Staples made his apologies and left the meeting 

•  Concerns regarding public access to Courtown Woods 
•  Public Lighting in Ferns 
•  Timeline for occupation of building at Enniscorthy Technology Park  
•  Templeshannon Regeneration Project – current status 
•  Enniscorthy Tourism Project – current status 
•  Waterford Airport – upgrade and funding plans 
•  Rosbercon Social Housing  - update 
•  Council to write to ESB to  seek clarity around new connections in Ballinaboola and 

Ballywilliam and Milehouse Rd Enniscorthy - a timeline for same 

Page 3 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

•  Completion date for New Ross Greenway 
•  New Ross Fire Station - Transfer of site to HSE for provision of Ambulance Centre – - 
Congratulations to the contractor in respect of newly constructed Fire Station 

•  New financial thresholds for social housing – public awareness 
•  Enniscorthy Flood Scheme – revised timeline 
•  Provision of public toilets at Vinegar Hill 
•  Murphy Floods Site – update on proposed works 
•  Wexford Walking Trails 
•  Proposed Greenway – Rosslare/Wexford 
•  Appointment of CE to Board of HFA 
•  HGV parking arrangements in Rosslare 
•  Proposed housing development at Clonhasten – lack of water services capacity 
•  Resurfacing of N11 through Oylegate 
•  Trinity Wharf access road – update 
•  The Ballagh  - social housing project and related water service connection issues 
•  Energy retro-fit programme and small energy-related works 
• 
•  Min Ryan Skateboard Park – timeline for completion 
•  Vacant properties and use of CPO as means of renewal 
•  St Joseph’s Gorey Social Housing project – timeline 

Japanese Knotweed issues in Wexford District 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break and at this point, a number of Councillors made their 
apologies and left the meeting, including Cllrs Donohoe, Walsh, Staples, Moore, Murphy (B), 
Devereux, Lawlor, Carthy, Browne, McDonald, O’Rourke, Kelly, and Farrell. 

7. 

Minutes of CPG  

7.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 3rd May, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. W. Kavanagh, seconded by Cllr. W. Whelan, the Council 
resolved to adopt the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 3rd May 2022. 

7.2  Minutes of CPG Meeting 7th June, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. W. Kavanagh, seconded by Cllr. W. Whelan, the Council 
resolved to adopt the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 7th June 2022. 

8. 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

8.1 
8.2  
8.3  
8.4 
8.5  

New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 09.03.2022 &13.04.2022  
Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 23.03.2022 & 20.04.2022 
Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 23.03.2022 & 20.04.2022 
Special Meeting of Enniscorthy Municipal District – 15.03.2022 
Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 21.03.2022 & 25.04.2022 

Page 4 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

8.6   Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meetings – 15.02.2022 & 22.03.2022 

& 19.04.2022 
Special Meeting of Gorey Municipal District Meeting 21.02.2022 
Protocol Committee Meeting 14.02.2022 
Economic Development & Enterprise SPC Meeting 03.03.2022 

8.7 
8.8 
8.9 

The Members noted the above Minutes 

9. 

Correspondence and Communications 

9.1 
9.2 

9.3 
9.4 

9.5 
9.6 

9.7 
9.8 

9.9 
9.10 

Letter from Galway County Council re motion dated 6th April, 2022. 
Email from Private Secretary to the Minister for Health re motion dated 12th April, 
2022. 
Letter from Galway County Council re condolences dated 29th April, 2022 
Email from Private Secretary to the Minister for Health re: motion dentistry dated 
6th May, 2022. 
Letters from Clare County Council re: two motions dated 18th May, 2022. 
Email from Private Secretary to the Minister for Education re motion SPHE 
programme  dated 19th May, 2022 
Letter from Cavan County Council re motion turf dated 17th May, 2022  
Letter from Office of the Tanaiste and Minister for Enterprise, Trade and 
Employment re: IDA Regional Director for South East Wexford dated 19.05.2022 
Letter from Galway County Council re: resolution PRM dated 27th May, 2022. 
Letter from Catherine Martin, Minister for Tourism, Culture, Arts Gaeltacht, Sport 
and  Media re motion dated 31st May, 2022 

The Members noted the above correspondence items and expressed their appreciation for 
the responses received. 

10. 

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  

10.1 

List of Conferences/Training – List Attached  

On the proposal of Cllr. W. Kavanagh, seconded by Cllr. W. Whelan, the Council 
approved for attendance the list of conferences and training events as circulated. 

10.2  Councillor Conference Reports: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

Dunkirk Delegation Report District  
Age Friendly Croke Park Launch  
LAMA Awards Dinner Report  
Cllr. Pip Breen, Report of Irish Planning Institute Conference April 2022 
Cllr. John Fleming, Report of The Suck Valley Way Conference, Roscommon 
April 2022 
Annual London Wexford Association Delegation Report April, 2022 
Cllr. Cathal Byrne, Report of The Suck Valley Way Conference,  
Roscommon, April 2022. 

Page 5 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

The Members noted the Reports above as circulated 

11. 

Deferred Notices of Motions – County Council Meeting 11th April, 2022   

11.1  Cllr. L. Kelly 

“Wexford County Council call on the relevant minister to fund a Local Coordination 
Group to  support the Ukrainian refugee fleeing the invasion of their homeland, 

Similar to the interagency model which was successfully used for the arrival of 
Syrian refugees a number of years ago, this Local Coordination group would look at 
areas of health, education, housing and general integration.”  

Response of the Executive: 

The Wexford Community Forum has been reconvened to assist in the coordination 
of the response here in County Wexford to the Ukrainian Displaced persons 
situation. A number of meetings of the Forum have already taken place and these 
meeting will continue at regular intervals over the coming weeks and months. The 
Cathaoirleach of the Council is a member of the Forum.  

In the absence of Cllr. Kelly this Motion was deferred to the July meeting. 

11.2   Cllr. P. Barden  

“That Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Environment, Climate & 
Communications and the Office of the Planning Regulator to set as minimum, a 
setback for wind turbines of six times the turbine height between a wind turbine and 
the nearest residential property”.  

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister and to the OPR for 
consideration 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Barden, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and agreed by 
all. 

12. 

Deferred Notices of Motions – County Council Meeting 9th May, 2022   

12.1    Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin  

“This Council acknowledges the severity of the mental health crisis in Co. Wexford, 
particularly in the area of CAMHS. It further acknowledges that during out of hours 
many children in crisis get referred to University Hospital Waterford, only to be sent 
home without a psychiatric assessment. 

Page 6 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

We once again call on the Minister for Health and the HSE to set out a timeframe 
this year for the establishment of a 24/7 Psychiatric Unit with an Assessment Team 
for both children and adults within Wexford General Hospital.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Health for consideration 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. O’Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and 
agreed by all 

12.2  Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

“That this council contacts the OPW and investigates the discovery by archaeologists of a 
mass grave/burial pit on the battlefield of Vinegar Hill, Enniscorthy following geophysical 
surveys in 2017. (This made national headlines, and backs up the assessment of local 
historians and historical accounts) 

This Council further instructs the OPW to preserve and mark the area as a national 
monument. In terms of planning and development, it further calls for priority to be given to 
the preservation of what remains of the battlefield and burial sites on Vinegar Hill.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform 
for consideration 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. O’Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and agreed by 
all 

13. 

Notices of Motion 

13.1    Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin  

“That this Council calls on the Government and Minister of Social Protection to find 
a solution which would allow artists with disabilities to be in receipt of the Basic 
Income for Artists payment without it affecting their disability supports” . 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Social Protection for 
consideration 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. O’Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden and 
agreed by all 

Page 7 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

13.2  Cllr. C. Byrne 

“Recognizing the fact that such charges are not commonplace across all local 
authorities, this Council calls for the abolition of slip way charges levied by Wexford 
County Council from 2022.” 

Response of the Executive: 

The anticipated income from slipway charges forms part of the Council’s overall 
annual income as set out in the 2022 Budget. These charges have been set for the 
current financial year by the Chief Executive within the Annual Schedule of Charges. 
If passed, this Motion will be considered by the Council in the context of the 
consideration of the 2023 Budget, a process which is due to commence shortly. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Byrne and seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan.  

The following counter-proposal was then proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan and 
seconded by Cllr. P. Breen: 

“That consideration of this Motion be deferred and to take place during preparation 
and consideration of the Annual Budget 2023”. 

The counter-proposal was put to the members and agreed. 

13.3  Cllr. J. Moore 

“In our efforts to promote the Circular Economy, let us ask our residents who have 
old and unused musical instruments to donate them so that they can be given a new 
lease of life.  

This venture can employ the support across departments such as the Environment 
and Climate Change as well as Community. The restored old instruments can be 
returned to use in our communities, schools etc.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be passed to the Library / Arts Department for further 
consideration 

In the absence of Cllr. J. Moore, this Motion was deferred to the July meeting. 

Page 8 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

13.4  Cllr. L. Kelly 

“The Council agrees to write to Minister for Health Stephen Donnelly, the Oireachtas Health 
Committee and the HSE CEO Paul Reid requesting that the provision of Long Covid Clinics is 
retained and expanded. 

The Council also agrees to raise it with our regional health board and/or local hospital and 
at any other suitable juncture. 

The Council then agrees to circulate this motion to other Councils asking them to consider 
the same”. 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Health for consideration with a 
copy to the Oireachtas Health Committee, the HSE CEO Paul Reid and all local authorities 
for consideration.  

In the absence of Cllr. Kelly this Motion was deferred to the July meeting. 

13.5  Cllr. T. Forde 

“This Council expresses a lack of confidence in the Housing For All plan and its ability to 
deliver for the housing needs of County Wexford. We ask that Minister Darragh O Brien 
review this plan and prioritise policies that will ensure access to, and the delivery of, 
affordable, secure and decent quality housing for all.” 

Response of the Executive: 

Housing for All is the government’s plan to increase the supply of housing to an average of 
33,000 units per year over the next decade, through the provision of a mix of social, 
affordable and private housing for sale and rent.  Over €4 Billion in guaranteed state 
funding has been secured for at least the next 5 years which is the highest ever level of 
government investment in building social and affordable housing to date.  

As part of the Plan, a range of support measures are being introduced to include increasing 
the availability of the land, supporting expanded workforce, the provision of funding and 
increasing capacity to enable both the public and private sectors to meet the targets. 

For Co Wexford, a minimum target of 1,155 new social housing units to be delivered up to 
2026 has been set by Government.  It is expected that Wexford County Council may be in a 
position to avail of additional schemes and funding to allow a further increase in units over 
this time.   When the plan was launched in September 2021, post-covid supply chain 
constraints, nor significant inflation nor the war in Ukraine were on the horizon. 

Page 9 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

The Council welcomes any assistance the Minister can offer that will lead to an 
acceleration in the delivery of our Housing Capital Programme as outlined above. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes.  

(On the proposal of Cllr. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed by all, the 
Council agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue past 5.30pm) 

The following counter-proposal to the Motion above was then proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan 
and seconded by Cllr. P. Breen: 

“This Council expresses its view that there is a need to expand and accelerate in the 
Housing For All plan in order to deliver for the housing needs of County Wexford. We ask 
that Minister Darragh O Brien review this plan and prioritise policies that will ensure access 
to, and the delivery of, affordable, secure and decent quality housing for all.” 

The counter-proposal was put to the meeting and agreed by all. 

13.6  Cllr. M. Sheehan 

“That this Council, in consultation with the various Countywide initiatives and relevant 
community organisations, social and health services investigates the feasibility of a 
dedicated full time phone line Countywide for people who are in a vulnerable physical and 
mental condition to contact when in a time of adversity.” 

Response of the Executive: 

A range of organisations currently offer services on a national basis and scale for people 
may be experiencing vulnerability or difficulty, particularly in times of adversity. The 
Council is happy to promote awareness of these organisations and the relevant contact 
details to those target groups who may require their support. We will also engage directly 
with these organisations in times of particular difficulty as we did for example with ALONE 
during “Covid lockdown”. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by 
all. It was further agreed to refer the Motion to the Housing and Community SPC for 
consideration. 

Page 10 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

13.7  Cllr. Davy Hynes 

“This Council calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage to cap rents 
as a matter of urgency is it is obvious the enormous increases in rents are pushing more and 
more people into homelessness. “ 

Response of the Executive: 

The Housing Agency carried out an analysis on behalf of the Department of Housing before 
Christmas on the HAP discretion level which is available to local authorities and the 
resulting analysis and recommendations were presented to the Minister.  

In response, and in an effort to secure and expand more tenancies and prevent new entries 
to homelessness, the Minister has now announced that the discretion rate for all HAP 
tenancies will increase from 20% to 35% in all counties. The change means that local 
authorities can now pay up to 35% more than the current set of HAP rates. 

In addition, from July 2022, a single person will now also be eligible for the couples HAP 
rate.    

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and agreed by all. 

13.8  Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 

“In April 28th the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage Darragh Ó Brien 
provided the breakdown, by local authority, of the Affordable Housing targets funded by 
the Affordable Housing Fund for the period 2022 to 2026.The five-year 2022-2026 total 
target has been allocated to eighteen local authority areas, where the need for affordable 
housing is determined as being significant. 

This Council expresses our deep disappointment to the Minister that Co. Wexford was 
omitted from the National Affordable Housing Fund List; we ask that it will be included 
immediately, and we further ask - how many families in Co. Wexford will be allocated 
affordable houses this year, and in the years 23, 24 respectively?” 

Response of the Executive: 

County Wexford does not currently have an affordability constraint at a county level in 
terms of house purchase.  With this in mind, the Council Executive has commissioned 
KPMG to examine the key urban centers across the County to determine if an affordability 
constraint can be demonstrated at main town level.  Where this occurs, the Council will 
make a sub-county application for access to the Affordable Housing Fund in respect of 
these areas.     

Page 11 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

Independently of this exercise, and where sufficient demand can be demonstrated, the 
Council is committed to examining the delivery of small number of affordable housing 
units. The first such affordable housing scheme to be brought on stream will be a 20-unit 
development of 3-bed semi-detached units in Ramsfort, Gorey with house prices set to not 
exceed €250,000. 

A roadshow top promote this Scheme is scheduled go live in Gorey Civic Centre later this 
month, allowing people to see the scheme in greater detail and to register their interest.    

Consideration of this Motion was deferred to the July meeting. 

13.9  Cllr. L. Kelly 

“Wexford County Council develop a clear policy in relation to how it deals with 
Rhododendron. It is an invasive non native species that can cause ecosystems to collapse 
because they do not coexist with our native plants once they get established. They take 
over and stop a natural plant community developing. With the policy resources should be 
allocated to ensure it’s implementation” 

Response of the Executive: 

It is recommended that this Motion be directed to the Climate Change, Biodiversity & 
Environment SPC for consideration, with the results of that consideration process to be 
brought before Wexford County Council for further review. 

Consideration of this Motion was deferred to the July meeting. 

13.10  Cllr. Davy Hynes 

“This calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage to increase the 
criteria for people applying for Social housing as the present situation is forcing people into 
paying high rents and therefore into poverty and its often a choice between 'rent or food'  

Response of the Executive: 

As outlined above, the Minister has now announced that the discretion rate for all HAP 
tenancies will increase from 20% to 35% in all counties. The change means that local 
authorities can now pay up to 35% more than the current set of HAP rates. In addition, 
from July 2022, a single person will now also be eligible for the couples HAP rate.    

These measures when implemented will significantly increase the ability of those on the 
Housing List within private rented accommodation to meet their rent commitments. 

Consideration of this Motion was deferred to the July meeting. 

Page 12 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.06.22 

13.11  Cllr. Tom Forde 

“This Council calls on the government and Minister Michael McGrath to immediately take 
action to ensure that every household receives the full €200 energy credit, as was 
previously guaranteed and we express our unhappiness that some tenants of Wexford 
County Council who face the same increases in the cost of living as the rest of our 
community, have been excluded from this full rebate due to shortcomings in the 
government measure.” 

Response of the Executive: 

If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to the Minister for Public Expenditure and Reform 
for consideration  

Consideration of this Motion was deferred to the July meeting. 

14. 

Any Other Business 

As this was the last Council meeting to be attended by the County Secretary as he 
approached his date of retirement, the Cathaoirleach and Members joined in wishing Mr. 
Minogue health and happiness in his upcoming retirement. They complimented him on his 
38 years of outstanding service to local government and thanked him for his loyalty and 
professionalism to Wexford County Council during that time, and in particular for his much-
appreciated advice and assistance to the Members. 

On behalf of the Executive, Chief Executive Mr. T. Enright also expressed sincere 
appreciation of the County Secretary’s valued contribution to the work of the Council over 
many years. 

Mr. Minogue expressed his sincere thanks to the Members and the Executive for their kind 
words and good wishes, saying he had thoroughly enjoyed his years of service and he 
hoped his efforts throughout his highly rewarding career had helped contribute to the 
work of the Council in serving the people of Wexford. 

Mr. Enright advised the Council that he would be appointing Mr. Michael Drea, Senior 
Executive Officer to the post of County Secretary, following Mr. Minogue’s retirement. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Meitheamh, 2022. 

________________________  
Cllr George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 13 of 13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
