County Council Meeting 9.01.23 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 9th January, 2023 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

BELL 

PAT  
(Remote) 
MAURA 
(Remote) 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MOORE 

JIM 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

BRIDÍN 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BREEN 

PIP  
(Remote) 

FORDE 

TOM 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN  FIONNTÁN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

SHEEHAN 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

STAPLES 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

MICHAEL 

FRANK 
(Remote) 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 
(Remote) 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Sinead Casey, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary (Remote) 
Ms. Susan Doran, Administrative Officer Corporate 

Apologies: 

Cllr. Barbara Anne Murphy 

Page 1 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.01.23 

The  Cathaoirleach  opened  the  meeting  by  wishing  all  present  a  happy  and  healthy  2023.  He 
welcomed Ms. Sinead Casey in her new role as A/Director of Services. 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

The  family  of  Catherine  Quirke,  mother  of  Tony  Quirke,  former  Engineer  with  Wexford 
County Council. 
The family of Michael Jones, Executive Engineer, Special Projects. 
The family of Oliver Fingleton, father of Helena Browne, Chief Technician, Water Services. 
The  family  of  Billy  Myers  former  Revenue  Collector  with  New  Ross  Town  Council  and 
Wexford County Council.  
The family of Denis (Dessie) O'Rourke father of Alan O’Rourke, IT and Paul O’Rourke, Credit 
Control. 
The family of Marie Kennedy, mother of Brian Kennedy, Housing Section.  
The family of Darren Murphy, Water Services Inspector, Gorey District. 
The family of Mark Fitzhenry, former employee Machinery Yard, Wexford County Council. 
The family of Bernadette Kavanagh, mother of Geraldine Kavanagh, Gorey Area Office. 

Cllr.  D.  Kenny  offered  condolences  to  Dan  Walsh  on  the  passing  of  his  mother  Kitty, 
sentiment shared by all present. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1       County Council Meeting 12th December, 2022 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Laffan, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick, the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 12th December, 2022. 

2.1.1   Matters Arising 

Cllr. G. Carthy advised that there is a chronic shortage of bed capacity, resulting in serious 
delays in Wexford General Hospital. He called on the Wexford Members of the Regional 
Health Forum to seek an emergency open floor meeting of the Regional Health Forum to 
discuss the issues. Cllr. G. Carthy proposed that the Council write to the Minister for 
Finance requesting that he use the emergency legislative provisions introduced for Covid to 
provide emergency funding for the provision of 96 additional beds, and to consult the 
Attorney General in relation to same. This was seconded by Cllr. J. Owens. 

2.  Part XI of the Planning & Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning 

& Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

2.1       LAC2211 - Public realm space and utilise heritage building for multi-purpose use 
at  Brennan's Lane and The Shambles, Mary Street, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

Page 2 of 6 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.01.23 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, 
seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the public 
realm space and utilise heritage building for multi-purpose use at Brennan's Lane and The 
Shambles, Mary Street, New Ross in accordance with the terms of LAC2211, as circulated. 

3.  Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1     Intention to dispose of a portion of a former public road which now serves 
Clearstream Technologies, Enniscorthy, to Clearstream Technologies Ltd, Moyne 
Upper, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. K.C. Nolan, the Council resolved to 
approve the disposal of a portion of a former public road which now serves Clearstream 
Technologies, Enniscorthy, to Clearstream Technologies Ltd, Moyne Upper, Enniscorthy, 
Co. Wexford in accordance with the terms of the Section 183, as circulated.   

4.  Delegation to Travel to New York for St. Patrick’s Day 

Mr. E. Hore advised that it is proposed to send a delegation of two Members and one 
official to New York to participate in various engagements for St. Patrick’s Day, on foot of 
an invitation from the New York County Wexford Association. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the Council resolved to 
approve the New York delegation.  

5. 

Invitation to New Ross Municipal District for Delegation to Travel to Hartford 

Cllr. M. Sheehan, Chair of New Ross Municipal District advised that it is proposed to send a 
delegation of two Members and two officials to Hartford, Connecticut in light of the strong 
bond of the sister city relationship between Hartford and New Ross. The delegation will 
participate in various engagements for St. Patrick’s Day, on foot of an invitation from the 
Central Connecticut Celtic Cultural Committee. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council resolved to 
approve the Hartford delegation.  

Cllr. C. Byrne requested that for all future proposed trips abroad, details of the number of 
people travelling and the length of stay should be provided to the Members. This was 
agreed by the Executive. 

6.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Water issues and outages in Gorey. 
•  Potential need for greater resourcing of the Dog Warden Service. 
•  Timeline for completion of lighting in Gorey Town Park. 

Page 3 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.01.23 

•  Update on measures to address safety concerns as a result of flooding at the Ahare bridge. 
•  Update in relation to odour issues at Ballyminaun, Gorey. 
•  Update in relation to property which has been confirmed as having a mica/pyrite problem. 
•  Update regarding Irish Water announcement of €12m upgrade for Newtown Road 

treatment plant. 

•  Potential for defibrillators outside all Council public offices. 
•  Timeline for plan on South Main St. upgrade to be brought to the Members. 
•  Has Wexford County Council engaged with the Church regarding potential emergency 

accommodation? 

•  Timeframe for taking in charge of estate in Enniscorthy. 
•  Update in relation to the Sports Hub in Enniscorthy. 
•  Planning permission being granted for upgrade of water works in Enniscorthy was 

welcomed. 

•  Possibility of street lighting being provided from Ferns village to Ferns GAA Club. 
•  Which local authority estates will be upgraded in 2023? 
•  Current status of Murphy Floods purchase. 
•  Residential Zoned Land Tax implications for someone who is in process of applying for 

planning. Will they be exempt? 

•  Update on Enniscorthy Flood Scheme? 
•  Timeline for works on Murphy Floods site once purchased. 
•  Timeline for repair works to bridge at Wilton. 
•  Emergency accommodation available in Enniscorthy? 
•  Possibility of street lighting from Drumgoold to Castlegardens. 
•  Timeline for review of speed limits outside schools. 
•  Will CBL have an impact on the type of property an applicant qualifies for? 
•  Has Respond reverted in relation to vacant units in Irishtown, New Ross. 
•  Update in relation to additional funding for repair of 7 streets in New Ross. 
•  Status of potential new hotel site for New Ross and status of John St. Enterprise Centre in 

New Ross. 

•  Commencement date for Local Area Plan for New Ross. 

Leas Cathaoirleach Cllr. Michael Whelan took the Chair as Cathaoirleach Cllr. George 
Lawlor excused himself from the meeting momentarily. 

In relation to the queries raised regarding the newly adopted Housing Allocation Scheme, 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services committed to review the allocation scheme having 
regard to the concerns raised. The scheme will be discussed at the next Housing SPC. 

Cathaoirleach Cllr. George Lawlor resumed the Chair. 

•  Concerns raised in relation to signage at Ballygillane Roundabout. 
•  Possibility of purchasing land in Kilrane for social and/or affordable housing. 
•  Proposed site visit to Carne beach to view impact of erosion and possible mitigation 

measures. 

•  Update on wastewater capacity for Rosslare Strand. 
•  Need for cleaning and maintenance programme for Wexford streets. 
•  Congratulations for running Ukranian Christmas event. 

Page 4 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.01.23 

•  Timeline for availability of KPMG report in relation to affordable housing. 
•  Necessity for affordable housing to be able to cater for local need rather than a 70/30 split. 
•  Delays in relation to repairs to public lighting. 
•  Energy retrofit programme and selection criteria. 
•  Pre-planning meeting delays. 

Cllr. G. Carthy and Cllr. J. O’Rourke left the meeting at this point. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break and at this point.  

Cllr. J. Hegarty left the meeting at this point. 

•  Timeframe for credentials for CBL to issue to housing applicants and communication plan. 
•  Request for list of local authority properties due to be retrofitted and window and door 

replacements, to be circulated. 

•  Possibility of Wexford County Council purchasing the old Garda station for emergency 

accommodation. 

•  Derelict properties at Hill St. and Davitt Road and timeline for works once notice is served. 
•  Status of Respond housing project in Taghmon. 
•  Update on possible assistance for people in Clongeen/Foulksmills. 
•  Request for safety improvement works at the junction of Taghmon and Barntown roads. 
•  Road repairs on secondary and tertiary roads. 
•  Number of prosecutions for littering. 

7.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

7.1      New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 9th November, 2022 
7.2      Rosslare Municipal District Meeting –  16th November, 2022 
             7.3      Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 21st November, 2022  
             7.4      Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 15th November, 2022 
             7.5       Protocol Committee Meeting 11th April, 2022  

On the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes, the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the above meetings. 

8.  Correspondence and Communications 

8.1       Letter from Limerick County Council re: motion bus shelters dated 2nd December, 
2022 
8.2       Letter from Kerry County Council re: motion Ukrainian Refugees dated    
14th October,  2022 

             8.3       Letters from Cork County Council re 3 motions dated 12th December, 2022 
8.4       Email from Niamh Redmond Private Secretary, Minister O'Brien Office re 
evictions  dated 20th December, 2022 

The Members noted the above correspondence. 

Cllr. L. Kelly expressed his support for the motion outlined in 8.1 and all Members agreed. 

Page 5 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 9.01.23 

9.  Councillor’s Conferences and Training 

8.1       List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan, the Council approved 
attendance for the following conference: 

•  Association of Irish Regions Conference in Monaghan Town – 7th to 9th 

February, 2023 

10. Any Other Business 

Cllr. G. Laffan congratulated Derek Kent on his election as Chairman of the GAA Leinster 
Council. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan proposed that Wexford County Council write to Caredoc requesting them 
to meet to discuss issues which arose over Christmas, this was seconded by Cllr. J. Owens 
and agreed by all. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Feabhra, 2023. 

________________________  
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 6 of 6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
