County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
    held on Monday 9th October, 2017 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
J. Fleming  
A. Kelly;  
BA Murphy,    
O. O’Connell; 
F. Staples  
M. Whelan. 

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
M. Murphy;    
J. O’Rourke   
J. Sullivan; 

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe,   
R. Ireton; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen  
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Sheehan   
D. Wadding;   

K. Codd Nolan 
K. Doyle, 
W. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien; 

O. Walsh; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance & ICT; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing; 
Ms. L. Burns, Arts Officer; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary 

Apologies:   

Cllr. P. Kavanagh  
Cllr. W. Fitzharris 
Cllr. M. Farrell 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Christina Fitzharris, mother of Cllr. Willie Fitzharris 
  The family of Geraldine Creane, mother of Jack Creane, Library Assistant, Wexford 

Library 

  The family of Liam Cosgrave, former Taoiseach and leader of Fine Gael. On the 

proposal of Cllr. K. Codd-Nolan, seconded by Cllr. L. O’ Brien, it was agreed to open a 
Book of Condolence. 

  The family of Mick O’Brien, former Fianna Fáil Councillor 
  The family of Thomas Whelan Ballycullane 
  The family of Mrs. Mary Nolan, Foulksmills 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

Congratulations/Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  St. Martin’s Camogie Team on winning the County Final 
  Wexford County Council Community Groups who had applied for Town and Villages 

Renewal and the Council Staff who helped with the applications 

  The  Nuclear  Free  Local  Authorities  (NFLA),  to  which  the  Council  is  affiliated,  who 

have been nominated for a Nobel Prize for Peace. 

  Wexford  Tidy  Towns  on  winning  a  silver  medal  in  the  2017  National  Tidy  Towns 

Competition. 

  Kevin Doyle former Irish International Soccer Player on his retirement  
  The Gardai for the successful Open Day at Gorey Garda Station 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 Special County Council Meeting – 28th September, 2017. 
1.2 County Council Meeting – 11th September, 2017. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick, the Council approved the 
minutes of the meetings as outlined above.  

The Cathaoirleach advised that a number of the housing motions on today’s agenda would 
be dealt with at a Special Housing Meeting which will take place on Friday 10th November 
2017. This was agreed by the members. 

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Proposed disposal of property at 4 Lower Church Street, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

At  the  outset  Cllr.  J.  Mythen  disagreed  with  the  motion  and  asked  that  the  house  be 
retained  in  Council  possession  to  provide  housing  for  social  housing  applicants.    The 
Director advised that it would be uneconomic to repair the house and recommended that it 
be sold. The Council hoped to sell the property for €72,000 and the Director noted that the 
proceeds of the sale would come back to the Council.  The repairs would cost €56,000 and 
the balance outstanding on the mortgage also has to be paid back.  He also advised that 
the  house  was  not  a  Local Authority  house  but  was  a  house  bought  by  a  Local  Authority 
loan.  The motion was then put to the floor. 

On the proposal of Councillor  G. Carthy seconded by Cllr.  B.A. Murphy, it  was agreed by 
the  majority  of  those  attending  to  dispose  of  the  property  at  4  Lower  Church  Street, 
Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford in accordance with the notices circulated.  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

3.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1 LAC1706 – Proposed development of an amenity space over 2.937 hectares consisting 
of the provision of a multi use games area, senior & junior play zones, outdoor fitness area, 
open levelled playing area, picnic area, walking tracks and allotments.  Provision of a toilet 
block and a maintenance building will also be included.  85 car parking spaces will also be 
provided and secure fencing to the perimeter of the site at Clonroche, Enniscorthy. 

The  Members  noted  the  report  of  Mr.  T.  Enright,  Chief  Executive  dated  26th  September, 
2017.  On  the  proposal  of  Cllr  J.  Fleming,  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  the  Members 
agreed and approved the proposed development as outlined in the report. 

4.  a.  Wexford County Council  Burial Ground Maintenance  and Development  Strategy 

b.  Bye -  Laws of Wexford County Council  for  The Management  Of All Open Burial                  
Grounds  Within  The Jurisdiction Of  Wexford County Council: 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien and agreed by all, the 
Council adopted: 

(a) the Wexford County Council Burial Ground Maintenance and Development Strategy and  

(b) Bye-Laws of Wexford County Council for the Management of All Open Burial Grounds 
within the Jurisdiction of Wexford County Council 

5.  River Basin  Plan For Ireland  (2018 – 2021) - Water Framework Directive  Update: 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, noted that the Plan has previously been before the 
Council and has been out for public consultation recently.   

Anne Phelan, LAWCO, advised that new regulations with regard to public consultation are 
now part of the River Basin Plan process.  She outlined that a total of 5 public consultation 
meetings had taken place across County Wexford in the period April to August 2017. She 
also advised that PPN Representatives had been invited to those meetings and that 
another meeting will take place in the near future which will allow for further comment from 
the public. 

Brendan Cooney, Senior Executive Scientist advised that the Plan is an ongoing process 
with the overall objective of providing better water for consumers in County Wexford and 
throughout the Country.   

The update was noted by the Members.  Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin raised the issue of the 
quality of soil in Macamore, north County Wexford and Mr. Cooney advised that the soil is a 
problem with regard to water quality in that area. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

6.  Wexford County Council Social Housing Supply Programme 2017-2019 (Progress 

Report End of Quarter 3 2017): 

The Cathaoirleach advised that the report drawn up by the Housing Department is a 
comprehensive report and deals with much of the information requested by the Members 
over a number of recent meetings.  It is proposed to have a Special Housing Meeting on 
Friday 10th November 2017 at 3p.m - the meeting will be held “In-Committee” to allow for a 
frank and open discussion.  The Approved Housing Bodies will be invited to the meeting. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that if any Member required any further information with regard 
to housing before this Special Meeting to email the Housing Officer Padraig O’Gorman and 
he would answer any questions in advance.  The report will form the basis of the Special 
Meeting in addition to a number of motions raised by Members of the Council.  

This approach was agreed by the Members. 

7.  Advancing  the Arts   2018 – 2022  Draft Arts Plan -  Wexford County Council  Arts  

Office: 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, noted that the Members had received a report and 
presentation.  He thanked the Members and the Arts Officer Liz Burns and Mary McAuliffe 
for putting a comprehensive plan together for County Wexford for the next 5 years with the 
Artist and the Citizen central to the Plan.  

Liz Burns, Arts Officer, then gave a detailed analysis of the contents of the Plan and how 
the Arts Focus Groups, Municipal Districts and other Arts Group Organisations were 
involved in the framing of the Plan which also links in with other Plans including the Arts 
Council and the LCDC Plans.  She advised that the Plan itself will be launched in 
December 2017 and set out the scope and ambition contained in the Plan.   

A number of Members made comments on the Plan including the following: 

  The huge involvement throughout the County 
  The ambitiousness of the Plan 
  The accessibility across the County 
  The opportunities for the Arts in Co. Wexford arising from Music Generation funding. 
  Sense of ownership of the Plan among the artistic community 
  Emerging artists 
  Lack of financial support from the Council for amateur performers such as Light 

Opera and Drama Groups 

At 3.30 p.m. Cllr. B. A. Murphy left the meeting. 

  The active listening to the Community in formulating the Plan 
  The mental health benefits of the arts including such areas as music and groups 

coming together to perform artistic ventures 

  The funding for 2018 – Liz Burns advised that the new funding is a niche for small 

festivals and that there is a need for a policy with regard to festivals.  She hoped that 
an audit of festivals could be carried out in the future. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

Finally the Chief Executive complimented Liz Burns, Mary McAuliffe and their team in           
preparing the Plan and the huge amount of work involved in that.  He also advised that the 
new capital funding proposed in Budget 2018 will be a help towards providing resources 
towards the arts infrastructure in County Wexford.   

He noted that a lot of work in the Arts has been done in the last year since the appointment 
of the new Arts Officer and he also thanked the Elected Members for their enthusiasm and 
involvement in the making of the Arts Plan.   

The Cathaoirleach echoed the sentiment of the other Members with regards to the ambition 
and work that had gone into the Plan and the community involvement in making the Plan.  
He also noted that all of the Arts communities have been part of making the Plan.  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne the Draft Arts Plan 2018-2022 
was adopted by the Council. 

8.  Bank Overdraft Accommodation 2018: 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance had circulated a short report with regard to the Council’s 
overdraft requirements for 2018 and  advised that approval was being sought for borrowing 
by way of temporary overdraft accommodation of €13m to 31st December, 2018, the same 
level of overdraft facility as 2017. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. R. Ireton, the Members approved 
borrowing by way of temporary overdraft of €13m to 31st December 2018 in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 106 of the Local Government Act 2001. 

9.  Public Participation Network Registration: 

Annette Dupuy, PPN Support Officer, showed a video to the Members dealing with the role 
and functions of the PPN.  In particular she highlighted that the closing date for registration 
of organisations with the PPN is 31st October 2017. She asked Members to help to increase 
the numbers registering and asked that they encourage any groups that they are involved 
with or knew of to register with the PPN.  She also advised that the PPN has a new 
website.   

The Cathaoirleach advised that under Performance Indicators the Council had agreed to try 
to increase the numbers registered with the PPN in 2017. 

10. Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by 
Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and agreed by all. 

Cllr. M. Byrne asked that an amendment be made to the London Wexford Association in 
the previous minutes and  this was agreed.   

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Cathaoirleach then advised that the Children’s Book Festival will be taking place 
between the 2nd – 31st October and distributed a leaflet setting out the details of the Festival 
which is supported by Wexford County Council.  

County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

11. Chief Executive’s Report: 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, answered a number of queries raised by the Members in 
the absence of the Chief Executive including the following: 

  The Wexford AIRO Report which will analysis the 2016 census data from both a 

social and economic view point. 

  The adequacy of the number of Planning Staff given delays in pre-planning and 

dealing with compliance letters. 

  The Ambassador Programme 
  The effect of the statistics in the previous AIRO Report on the distribution of grants 
  The marketing of Rosslare Europort 
  QPR Training for Members 
  Progress on Gorey Town Park 
  Taking-In-Charge 
  Science Week 
  Removal of bins from villages 
  Housing units at Whiterock Hill 
  Report on Windfarms 
 
  Derelict sites 
  Tourism Training 
  Unfinished Housing Estates 
  Cleaning of lane ways 
  Town & Village Renewal Schemes 
  Junction at Ferrycarrig 
  Concerns over disadvantaged areas 
  Application to the Healthy Ireland Fund 

Insurance difficulties in flood plain areas 

12. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training: 

The List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training as submitted to the meeting was noted 
and agreed by the Members. 

13. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by all the Members 
present the following minutes were noted and approved. 

13.1 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 17.07.17 
13.2 Gorey Municipal District Meeting 18.07.17 
13.3 In Committee Gorey Municipal District Meeting 18.07.17 
13.4 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 12.07.17 
13.5 Protocol Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 01.09.17 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.6 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 17.07.17 

County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

14. Deferred Notices of Motion: 

Cllr. D. Wadding: 
1. a. “That this Council calls on Government to immediately scrap the failed Rebuilding 
Ireland programme, to be replaced by rent control, increased rent allowance , a large scale 
social building project and immediate use of vacant properties as emergency provision.  
b. In acknowledgement of the scale of the crisis, we demand Government calls a National 
Emergency status with regard to Housing and Homelessness”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Wadding, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes.  
Following a vote this motion was defeated. 

Cllr. D. Hynes: 
“This Council supports Social Justice Ireland call on Minister Eoghan Murphy to  put plans 
in place for  than 90,000 social homes and apartments needed to be built in the next five 
years  and agrees that current attempts to solve the unprecedented problem and   heart 
breaking problem have failed abysmally in light of recent deaths”.  

This motion was deferred to the Special Housing Meeting of the Council on 10th 
November 2017. 

Cllr. P. Kavanagh: 
“That Wexford County Council implements a plan to deal with the problem of Japanese 
Knotweed and to educate the public to the dangers of this invasive species”. 

This motion was deferred to the November Meeting of Wexford County Council. 

Cllr. A. Kelly: 
“I move that this Council call on the HSE and Minister Simon Harris to extend and 
adequately staff the existing mental health services at Summerhill Wexford to facilitate 24/7 
access to emergency assessment”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. A. Kelly seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen and agreed 
by all.  

Cllr. M. Byrne: 
“That Wexford County Council develop a digital strategy that will work toward this County 
being to the fore in utilising the advantages of technology and this Council leading in terms 
of the ability of citizens to interact digitally and to use open data. The Council shall also 
consider the appointment of a digital champion to lead this initiative”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and 
agreed by all.  Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, advised that he had no objection to a 
digital strategy for the Council - the Council is keen to promote digital improvements and 
capitalise on the new technologies. He advised, however,  that it will be the first half of 2018 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
before such a strategy could be presented to the Council given staffing and other 
constraints.  

County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

Cllr. D. Wadding: 
“I call on this Council to ban the use of Roundup by Council staff on public land, grass 
verges etc”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Wadding seconded by Cllr. A. Kelly. 

At 5 p.m. Cllr. J. O’Rourke left the meeting. 

Following discussion on the motion Cllr. Wadding agreed to withdraw the motion pending 
the receipt of a report from the Environment Department. The Council is to review the use 
of Roundup and bring back a report setting out the current use of weed killers and the 
research is to be done in consultation with the Department of Agriculture.  This was agreed 
by the Members.  

Cllr. D. Hynes: 
“The recent announcement to take over vacant houses and renovate these is to be 
welcomed as part of addressing the houses crisis but it can only be done if the finance is 
made available and the each vacant house in Wexford ear marked by the Council for such 
renovation is matched by the finance, otherwise it is just more spin”.  

This motion was deferred to the Special Housing Meeting of the Council on 10th 
November 2017. 

15. Notices of Motion: 

Cllr. L. McDonald: 

“In view of the chronic housing situation, Wexford County Council hereby requests the 
government to depart from their current policy of reviews, reports and summits and to 
reintroduce a serious policy of building social houses”. 

This motion was deferred to the Special Housing Meeting of the Council on 10th 
November 2017. 

Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin: 

“Wexford County Council calls on the government to immediately implement the Private 
Members Motion which was unanimously passed in November 2016 regarding rural post 
offices that will ensure a financially stable Post Office network and the protection of this vital 
service in our communities”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan 
and agreed.  

Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin: 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

“Wexford County Council sends our solidarity to the parliament and people of Catalonia 
following their recent referendum”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin seconded by Cllr. D. Wadding.  

An amendment by Cllr. K. Doyle seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne was proposed as follows: 

“Wexford County Council sends out solidarity to the parliament and people of Catalonia 
following the action after their recent referendum”.  The Council voted in favour of the 
amendment. 

At 5.15 p.m. Cllr. M. Whelan left the meeting. 

Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“That Wexford County Council opposes any proposals to reduce the number of rural post 
offices and recognises their importance to rural communities across the county and the 
country.  The Council shall write to An Post and to the Minister for Rural Affairs to express 
our concerns”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh and 
agreed by all. 

16.Sealing of Documents: 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor the Members noted and 
approved the sealing of documents as submitted to the meeting. 

17.Correspondence and Communications: 

     The Members noted the following correspondence received: 

  Acknowledgement from the office of Mr. Denis Naughten, TD, Minister for 

Communications, Climate Action & Environment, regarding new waste management 
proposals. 

18.Any Other Business:   

The Cathaoirleach advised that he had received a formal complaint about the use of phones 
during meetings of the Council.  He has advised that the matter will be forwarded to the 
Protocol Committee for consideration. 

Cllr. D. Wadding announced that this would be her last County Council Meeting, that she 
intended to resign from the County Council on 27th October, 2017.  She advised the meeting 
that she hadn’t come to the decision lightly, but, because of physical and mental health 
problems caused by stress, particularly in dealing with housing issues, she had decided that it 
was time for her to stand down.  She advised that People Before Profit will be proposing a new 
Councillor, Tony Walsh. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.10.17 

She thanked the Officials of the County Council and in particular those in the Housing 
Department for their help during her tenure as a Councillor. She also thanked Cllr. D. Hynes 
and her colleagues in Sinn Fein for the help that they had given her since her election as a 
Councillor. 

The Cathaoirleach responded by saying that he had great respect for any person who had put 
themselves before the people for election. He noted that Cllr. Wadding had given 100% effort 
to represent the people that had elected her and he wished her well in the future. 

Cllr. M. Byrne noted Cllr. Wadding’s ability to articulate her point of view, but also to listen to 
other points of view. He complimented her on her energy and honesty and highlighted her 
passion with regard to Housing and the Arts. He wished her well going into the future. 

Cllr. J. Mythen said he was sorry that Cllr. Wadding was leaving – she had a good spirit and 
served the community well, in particular the oppressed. 

Cllr. G Lawlor wished Cllr. Wadding all the best in the future. He highlighted her integrity and 
her concern for the underdog.  

Other members echoed these sentiments. 

The Chief Executive wished Cllr. Wadding well on his own behalf and also on behalf of the 
Council staff. He noted that she followed her own father, the recently–deceased Luke 
Wadding, in her community service. He also noted that the job of a Councillor is not an easy 
one, coming face to face with problems of a complex nature every day.  

Cllr. Wadding gave a voice to people who don’t have a voice and had given huge service to the 
people of Wexford. 

The Cathaoirleach concluded the meeting by saying that Cllr. Wadding’s efforts on behalf of 
the people were held in high regard. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
