County Council Meeting 08.01.18 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  

    held on Monday 8th January, 2018 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
M. Murphy;    
J. O’Rourke;   
F. Staples;  
M. Whelan. 

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen;  
M. Roche;  
J. Sullivan; 

K. Codd Nolan 
G. Carthy; 
K. Doyle;  
A. Donohoe,   
T. Forde; 
J. Fleming  
W. Kavanagh; 
P. Kavanagh; 
BA Murphy,    
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien; 
O. O’Connell; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Sheehan;  
T. Walsh; 

O. Walsh; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services;  
Mr. P. O’Gorman, A/Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance & ICT; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary; 

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed the Members back to the Council Chamber and 
wished them a Happy New Year for 2018. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 11th December, 2017. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. M. Roche and agreed by all the Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Martin Redmond, husband of Betty Redmond, Gorey Municipal District 
  The family of Ellen Brennan, mother of Tom Brennan, General Operative, Enniscorthy 

Municipal District 

  The family of Denis Ryan, father-in-law Hugh Maguire, Environment Department 
  The family of John Leacy husband Sheila Lacey, Block C, Reception 
  The family of Peter Sutherland, former EU Commissioner 
  The family of Jim Nolan 
  The family of Paddy Nolan, previous Mayor of Wexford 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.18 

  The family of Eddie Malone, Rosslare 
  The family of Sean Chapman, Enniscorthy 
  The family of Oggie Nolan, New Ross 
  The family of Mrs. Redmond, Castledockrell 
  The family of Claire Firman, Wexford Town 
  The family of Peggy Sinnott, Wexford Town 
  The family of Peter Quinn, Enniscorthy (Retired Superintendent) 

Congratulations/Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Rev. Aodhán  Marken  and  Canon  Arthur  Minnion  who  collected  almost  €50,000  for  local 

charities at the Christmas Fast 

  Leabharleann  Loch  Garman  for  their  Nollaig  na  mBán  celebrations  on  6th  January 
celebrating the year 1918 as the year when suffrage was extended to women, giving them 
the right to vote. 

  The  Government  decision  to  give  financial  assistance  to  Omagh  District  Council  to 

celebrate 20 years of the Omagh bombing atrocity.  

  The  work  of  the  staff  and  Management  of  Wexford  General  Hospital  in  dealing  with  the 

trolley crisis over the Christmas and New Year period. 

  The FCA Pipe Band, New Ross, whose anniversary occurs this year. 
  The St. Patrick’s Pipe and Drum Band, Wexford  who are 125 years in operation this year 

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Proposed disposal of land at Carricklawn, adjacent to Wexford General Hospital to the 
Health Services Executive for the purpose of facilitating the future development of Wexford 
General Hospital 

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  G.  Carthy  seconded  by  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor,  it  was  agreed  to 
transfer the land at Carricklawn in accordance with the notice circulated.  

2.2  Proposed 
the  Parish  of 
Rathnure/Templeudigan for the purposes of car parking facilities for the school and parish 
at Rathure, Wexford.  

transfer  of  approximately  0.21hectares  of 

land 

to 

Following an objection by Cllr. R. Ireton to the sale of the land for a nominal fee of €1.00 a 
wide ranging discussion then took place.  Mr. P. O’Gorman, A/Director of Services, advised 
that the house was in a poor state of repair and that the site would accommodate only one 
house which would be adjacent to the school. 

Following  further  discussion  it  was  proposed  by  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor  and  seconded  by  Cllr.  D. 
Hynes  that  a  condition  be  attached  to  the  sale  of  the  land  to  the  Parish  of 
Rathnure/Templeudigan  that  the  land  be  sold  for the  purposes  set  out  in  the  Section  183 
Notice but that if the land is no longer required for parking WCC are to be offered the land 
back at a nominal cost of €1.00.  It was further agreed that a similar provision should be put 
in place for all future similar land transfers. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.18 

Cllr. A. Donohoe then asked for a report of land transactions between WCC and the Church 
Authorities over the past 10 years.  

2.3 Proposed  disposal  of  land  at  20  &  20a  Duffry  Gate,  Enniscorthy  to  Grants  Pharmacy, 
Duffry Gate, Enniscorthy, for the purposes of increasing the commercial unit space of the 
purchasers. 

On the proposal of Councillor J. O’ Rourke seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh, it was agreed to 
transfer the land at 20 & 20a Duffry Gate in accordance with the notice circulated.  

Cllr. J. Mythen objected to the Section 183 proposal and argued that the houses could be 
used for emergency accommodation.  Mr. P. O’Gorman, A/Director of Services advised that 
the two houses were below standard and would cost too much to bring up to standard. He 
also  advised  that  there  was  a  proviso  on  the  sale  that  the  house  was  being  sold  for 
commercial purposes only. 

A vote was then taken: 

All voting in favour with the exception of – Councillors J. Mythen; O. O’Connell; T. Forde, M. 
Roche; D. Hynes; T. Walsh. 

2.4 Proposed disposal of land at “Slievebloom”, Killincooley, Kilmuckridge, Gorey to Fintan 
& Ann Sinnott, 7 Larkfiled Place, Lucan, Co. Dublin  

On  the  proposal  of  Councillor  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  P.  Breen,  it  was  agreed  to 
transfer the land at Slievebloom in accordance with the notice circulated.  

P.  O’Gorman,  A/  Director of  Services,  advised  that  the house  was  mortgaged  and  was  in 
very poor repair condition.  It would cost in excess of €50,000 to carry out repairs to bring 
the house back to a habitable standard. 

The Chief Executive advised that the funding raised goes back into the Council’s Housing 
Programme. 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance, advised that the Council has a mortgage on the house and 
that the Council is obliged to get the best price possible in the market both to pay off the 
mortgage and to give the maximum amount to the people who had taken out the mortgage 
in the first instance. 

The motion was then agreed by the Council. 

3.  Chief Executive’s Report: 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members. 

The Chief Executive and other Council Officials in attendance answered a number of 
queries raised by Members including the following: 

  The public consultation phase of the National Broadband Plan. 
  Tender documents for the new Greenway on the Rosslare to Waterford line.  

Consultants will examine the tenders submitted, looking at the potential economic 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.18 

benefit of a Greenway to County Wexford.  This is a medium to long term project and 
further discussion on the matter will take place with the Members in the future. 

  Successful application for Sports Partnership funding for Enniscorthy. 
  Littering/dumping/fly tipping. 
  Results of the domestic bin survey carried out a number of years ago. 
  The NRA funding for County Wexford. 
  The audit of telecommunications black spots throughout the County. 
  Enterprise Ireland grants to the South East to be issued to Members. 
  The prevention and collection of illegal dumping and the review of the staffing for the 

Rapid Response Crews. 
 
Illegal dumping at Taghmon. 
Illegal dumping at Turret Rocks, Enniscorthy. 
 
  The ongoing closure of the Solsborough Road. 
  The issue of littering will be discussed at the Environment SPC and the Chief 
Executive advised that the budget 2018 had been increased to allow for the 
increased staffing on the Rapid Response Crew.  Following discussion at the 
Environment SPC, a report will be broought back to the Council with a number of 
initiatives and proposals.  The Chief Executive highlighted the need for illegal 
dumping prosecutions.  The Environment SPC will meet on 7th February 2018. 

  The naming and shaming of persons convicted of littering. 
  The Sports Capital Grant for Enniscorthy Athletic Hub. 
  The Failte Ireland Viking Connection to include Wexford Town. 

At 4pm Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin arrived. 

  Presentation regarding improvement works to Wexford Quay. 
  Road closures associated with Enniscorthy By-Pass. 
  Appointment of School Wardens. 
  Vacant and derelict buildings in Rosslare Harbour. 

At 4.10 p.m. Cllr. J. O’Rourke left the meeting. 

4.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training: 

The List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training as submitted to the meeting was noted 
and agreed by the Members. 

5.  Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Murphy seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh and agreed by all the 
Members present the following minutes were noted and approved. 

5.1 Borough District of Wexford 20.11.17 
5.2 Gorey Municipal District 21.11.17  
5.3 Enniscorthy Municipal District 20.11.17 
5.4 Protocol Committee of the Borough District 20.11.17 
5.5 Transportation & Water Services SPC 29.11.17 
5.6 3rd Level Education Committee 11.12.17 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Notices of Motion: 

6.1 New Ross Municipal District: 

County Council Meeting 08.01.18 

 “That  this  Council  supports  the  request  from  New  Ross  Municipal  District  to  proactively 
promote  the  inclusion  of  Ramsgrange  village  in  the  proposed  wastewater  bundle  scheme 
for Duncannon, Arthurstown and Ballyhack. Existing provision for wastewater treatment in 
Ramsgrange is limited to isolated package plants and private provision. The village is well 
serviced  with  an  excellent  public  water  network,  secondary  school,  2  national  schools, 
sports ground, shop etc. and is within close proximity of the proposed scheme. Benefits to 
the Area include: 
  Environmental protection; 
  Consolidation of wastewater treatment and associated benefits to treatment and    

performance 
 Potential for development of village etc”.  

 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. W. Fitzharris seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and 
agreed by all. 

6.2 Cllr. Tony Walsh: 

“Calling on Wexford County Council (WCC) to acknowledge that housing is a basic human 
right for all and that WCC will do all in its power to ensure that all residents of County 
Wexford have a home and that everyone has a fundamental human right to housing, which 
ensures access to a safe, secure, habitable, and affordable home with freedom from forced 
eviction. 

The Right to Housing is protected in: 

  Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
  Article 11 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 
  Article 27 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child 
  Article 5 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 
  Article 14 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against 

Women” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Walsh seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes. 

Following discussion Cllr. Walsh agreed to an amendment to his motion to remove the 
words “with freedom from forced eviction” – the amended motion was then passed by the 
Council, as follows: 

“Calling on Wexford County Council (WCC) to acknowledge that housing is a basic human 
right for all and that WCC will do all in its power to ensure that all residents of County 
Wexford have a home and that everyone has a fundamental human right to housing, which 
ensures access to a safe, secure, habitable, and affordable home. 

The Right to Housing is protected in: 

  Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
  Article 11 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 

5 

 
 
 
  Article 27 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child 
  Article 5 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 
  Article 14 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against 

County Council Meeting 08.01.18 

Women” 

6.3 Cllr. Tony Walsh: 

“Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO) 
That  Wexford  County  Council  calls  on  our  Government  to  review  the  decision  to  join 
PESCO which is clearly in breach of the Irish Constitution (Article 29.4.9) and ensure that 
no  alteration  to  Ireland's  intended  neutrality  status  will  ever  take  place  without  the  Irish 
people deciding this in a referendum.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Walsh seconded by Cllr. M. Roche. 

The motion was put to the Council: 

Voting in favour: Councillors:  T. Walsh;  M.  Farrell;  D.  Hynes;  J.  Mythen;  F.  OSuilleabhain; 
O. O’Connell; T. Forde; M. Roche. 

Voting  against:  K.  Codd  Nolan;  P.  Kavanagh;  W.  Kavanagh;  B.A.  Murphy;  O.  Walsh;  P. 
Breen; M. Byrne; A. Donohoe; J. Hegarty; R. Ireton; J. Sullivan; A. Connick; W. Fitzharris; 
J.  Fleming;  M.  Murphy;  L.  O’Brien;  M.  Sheehan;  M.  Whelan;  T.  Dempsey;  G.  Lawlor;  L. 
McDonald; J. Moore; F. Staples. 

Cllr. G. Carthy and Cllr. K. Doyle abstained from the vote. 

The motion was defeated. 

6.4 Cllr. Tom Forde: 

"I  propose  that  this  Council  write  to  the  Department  of  Justice  calling  on  Minister  Charlie 
Flanagan to commence with the Commission of Investigation to examine claims sex abuse 
crimes by paedophile Bill Kenneally were covered up". 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor. 

The Cathaoirleach welcomed 2 people associated with the motion, Jason Clancy and Colin 
Power to the Council Chamber.   

The Council agreed unanimously in favour of the motion.  

7.  Sealing of Documents: 

The sealing of documents as submitted to the meeting was noted.  

8.  Correspondence and Communications: 

The Members noted the following correspondence received: 

  Correspondence from Minister for Transport, Tourism & Sport, regarding Road Grants 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.18 

9.  Any Other Business: 

The County Secretary advised the Members that the Disclosure of Political Donations forms 
had been circulated to the meeting and that the forms were to be completed and returned to 
the County Secretary by 31st January 2018. 

The County Secretary also advised that the Ethics Register Forms would be circulated to the 
Members next week and that they would be required to be returned by 28th February 2018. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan sought an update of the position with regard to the presentation of centenary 
medals to the Fire Service. 

The Chief Executive then informed the Members that the brochure on the Economic & 
Community Investment Programme 2018-2022 is almost ready for publication and will be 
printed and delivered to 65,000 homes throughout the County by the end of January 2018. 

He advised that a copy of the brochure will be sent to each of the Members before the main 
release.  The challenges to the county in economic, social and community terms over the next 
few years are highlighted in the brochure and the Chief Executive thanked the Council for their 
decision to increase the rates by 3% and was heartened by the vote of 27 Members of the 31 
present in favour of the budget proposals.  

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de Feabhra, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
