County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 12th June, 2023 
 in the Council Chamber at 2pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

BRIDÍN 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN  

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN  FIONNTÁN 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

STAPLES 

FRANK 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD  WALSH 

OLIVER 

KENNY 

DONAL 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

LAFFAN 

GARRY 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

MOORE 

JIM 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MURPHY 

BARBARA 
ANNE 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Sinead Casey, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary  

Apologies: 

Cllr. Diarmuid Devereux 
Cllr. Lisa McDonald 
Cllr. Jackser Owens 

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

1.  Presentation to the Council - Comhairle na nÓg 

Wexford Comhairle na nÓg members Adam Stafford, Zackari Grey, Ava Barry and Matteus 
Polinski (remotely) attended the meeting in the presence of Paula Kelly, Comhairle na nÓg 
Co-Ordinator and Susan Murphy, Wexford County Council. Adam Stafford presented their 
document “Vaping in County Wexford: The Young People’s Perspective”. The presentation 
covered the prevalence and accessibility, health implications, pricing and tax, litter and 
sustainability, appeal and advertisement, vaping in schools, and what can be done?  

Cllr.’s G. Lawlor, J. Codd, B.A. Murphy, D. Hynes, A. Bolger, J. Hegarty, D. Kenny, L. Kelly, W. 
Kavanagh, M. Sheehan, M. Whelan, J. Fleming and M. Farrell commended Comhairle na Óg 
on their presentation and posed the following questions: 

• 
Is Wexford County Council doing enough? 
•  Should different flavour options be banned? 
•  Should vaping be banned indoors? 
•  Should vaping be banned in school? 
•  How do we tackle it best? 

Mr. T. Enright and Ms. C. Godkin congratulated the members of Comhairle na nÓg present 
on their presentation and research document.  

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

•  The family of Chrissy Aspel, wife of Dermot Aspel, General Operative, New Ross Municipal 

District 

•  The family of David (Davy) Roice, father of Debbie Stanley, Gorey Municipal District. 
•  The family of Anna Fenlon, Former Cathaoirleach & Councillor, Wexford County Council 
•  The family of Margaret (Madge) Stafford, mother of Dympna Shanahan and Fiona Wadding                             

former employees of Wexford County Council 

•  The family of Noel Butler, father of Helen Butler, Insurance Risk Management 

At  the  request  of  Cllr.  J.  Moore  and  agreed  by  Cathaoirleach  G.  Lawlor,  those  present 
observed a minute’s silence to mark the passing of former Councillor Anna Fenlon who was 
the first female Cathaoirleach of Wexford County Council.  

Votes of Congratulations: 

Cllr. Jim Moore congratulated Cllr. John Hegarty, Manager of the Wexford Senior Football 
team on a fantastic win over Offaly in the Tailteann Cup. 

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

2.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1 

County Council Meeting 8th May, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 8th May, 2023. 

2.1.1  Matters Arising  
Cllr. G. Carthy noted that there was another accident at Larkin’s Cross today and 
enquired if the Council can expedite a permanent solution. Cllr.’s G. Laffan, D. Hynes 
and J. Codd echoed Cllr. Carthy’s sentiment. 

Cllr. G. Carthy enquired if there was any progress on his request at the last Council 
meeting calling on the Chief Executive to prepare and submit plans, specifications, and 
an estimate of cost on a suitable site to house a local affordable housing scheme to 
include social and any other housing options if necessary for the Kilrane/Rosslare 
Harbour area. Mr. T. Enright advised that the Executive will bring forward a report 
which will cover the entire County, as soon as possible. 

3.  Section 183 of the Local Government Act, 2001 

            3.1       Intention to dispose of Council owned land at Murntown Upper, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy, the Council resolved to 
dispose of Council owned land at Murntown Upper, Co. Wexford in accordance with 
the terms of the S. 183 Notice, as circulated. 

            3.2       Intention to dispose of two areas of land at Hewitsland, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council 
resolved to dispose of two areas of land at Hewitsland, New Ross, Co. Wexford in 
accordance with the terms of the S. 183 Notice, as circulated. 

            3.3       Intention to dispose the Former Fire Station, Michael Street, New Ross, Co.    
                         Wexford 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council 
resolved to dispose of the Former Fire Station, Michael Street, New Ross, Co.   
Wexford in accordance with the terms of the S. 183 Notice, as circulated. 

            3.4       Intention to extend the lease of the Old Fire Station, Davitt Road, Wexford Town. 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, the Council resolved to 
dispose of the Old Fire Station, Davitt Road, Wexford Town in accordance with the 
terms of the S. 183 Notice, as circulated. 

            3.5       Intention to lease 8 Lee Heights, Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell, the Council resolved to 
lease 8 Lee Heights, Wexford in accordance with the terms of the S. 183 Notice, as 
circulated. 

Page 3 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

            3.6       Intention to dispose of Council owned land at Ballinatray Lower, Courtown, Gorey,       
                        Co. Wexford 

Cllr. J. Sullivan sought a ruling from the Cathaoirleach if the S.183 Notice is in order 
as he believed a consideration should have been included in the notice and the 
valuation was only sent out last Friday. Cllr. G. Lawlor ruled that it is in order to 
proceed, based on legal advice. 

Cllr.’s J. Sullivan, F. Ó'Súilleabháin, A. Bolger, T. Forde, J. Codd and D. Hynes all spoke 
against the proposal to dispose of the land. Cllr.’s D. Kenny, A. Donohoe and W. 
Kavanagh spoke in favour of the proposal.  

Ms. L. Hore gave a detailed response to queries raised by the Members outlining the 
legal advice received, the valuations of the land and the economic argument for the 
need for a hotel. Ms. L. Hore advised that a planning application must be lodged 
within 12 months, if planning permission isn’t granted the land transfer is voided, 
and there is an appeal process to An Bord Pleanála. Ms. Hore stated that she had 
provided written responses to 47 queries received. 

Mr. T. Enright advised that we are witnessing local democracy in action, and it is a 
matter for the Members to decide if they wish to approve or reject the disposal of 
the land.  

Cllr. D. Kenny proposed the disposal of the land at Ballinatray Lower, Courtown, 
Gorey, Co. Wexford and this was seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that there would be a roll call vote and the outcome was 
the proposal to dispose of the land at Ballinatray Lower, Courtown, Gorey, Co. 
Wexford in accordance with the terms of the S. 183 Notice, as circulated was carried 
with 24 in favour and 7 against. The voting was as follows: 

BARDEN PAT 

BELL MAURA 

A 

F 

FARRELL 
MARY 
FLEMING 
JOHN 

F 

MURPHY 
BARBARA ANNE 

F 

F  MURPHY BRIDÍN  F 

BOLGER 
ANDREW 

BREEN PIP 

BROWNE 
AIDAN 
BYRNE 
CATHAL 

CARTHY GER 

CODD JIM 

CODD-NOLAN 
KATHLEEN 

A 

FORDE TOM  A  O’ROURKE JOHN  F 

F 

F 

F 

F 

A 

F 

HEGARTY 
JOHN 
HYNES 
DAVID 
KAVANAGH 
WILLIE 
KELLY 
LEONARD 
KENNY 
DONAL 
LAFFAN 
GARRY 

F 

A 

F 

F 

Ó'SÚILLEABHÁIN 
FIONNTÁN  
SHEEHAN 
MICHAEL 

STAPLES FRANK 

SULLIVAN JOE 

F  WALSH OLIVER 

F 

WHELAN 
MICHAEL 

A 

F 

F 

A 

F 

F 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

CONNICK 
ANTHONY 
DONOHOE 
ANTHONY 

F 

LAWLOR 
GEORGE 

F 

F  MOORE JIM 

F 

4.  Draft Annual Service Delivery Plan 2023 

Ms. A. Byrne advised that the Annual Service Delivery Plan outlines the principal services 
which the local authority will deliver to its citizens on foot of the budget. These service 
objectives will then be used in the drafting of team development plans. Progress in 
delivering on the objectives set out in the annual service delivery plan will be reported on a 
monthly basis in the Chief Executive’s report. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Annual Service Delivery Plan 2023. 

5.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Additional signage for Ballinesker beach. 
•  The need to enforce byelaws on beaches in relation to dogs. 
•  The need for additional dog fouling bins. 
•  Improvement works required to road to Ballinesker beach. 
•  Who is responsible for foliage under bridges which is impacting kayakers. 
•  Status of Enniscorthy Local Area Plan. 
•  Status of redesign of Enniscorthy sports hub. 
•  Update on Enniscorthy flood relief scheme. 
•  Update on status of Ballyminaun odour issue complaint. 
•  Are there outstanding planning enforcement issues pertaining to the business at 

Ballyminaun. 

•  Update on what Wexford County Council has done since the issue of pyrite was first 

brought to its attention.  

•  Request that families affected by pyrite are kept in the loop. 
•  Possibility of adding a road safety measure to proposed drainage works from Barntown to 

Larkin’s Cross. 

•  Drainage higher up on the mountain needs to be taken into consideration when carrying 

out the Barntown to Larkin’s Cross works. 
•  Timeframe for reopening of Killurin bridge. 
•  Does secondary treatment plant at Curracloe provide another option for the Wexford to 

Curracloe greenway? 

•  Can anything be done to help prevent fires near the Raven. 
•  Is the Council satisfied that it is doing all it can to support the fire service. 
•  Can the elected Members get a copy of the fire service contingency plans? 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

•  Has Council expressed its disappointment to the Department at the lack of communication 

re: Slaney Manor? 

•  Status of Choice Based Letting project. 
•  Request for list of properties on the windows and doors programme. 
•  Acknowledgement of good work in relation to 225th anniversary events. 
•  Commend Housing Department for impending housing delivery in Enniscorthy. 
•  Timeline for speed limit review. 
•  When will maps for zoned land tax be available? 
•  Work at Little Sea commended. 
•  Concerns raised re: camping on beaches and the potential for fires, especially during the 

fire service strike. 

•  Request for big belly bins in Rosslare MD. 
•  Request that Balloughton Road be improved. 
•  Request for barrier at Ballylannon to protect road users from Corach river. 
•  A number of residents of Clongeen raised concerns that the Red Cross said they were 

unaware of damage caused by mini tornado in Clongeen. 

•  Request that willow and reed bed treatment systems be explored for areas without 

treatment system capacity. 

•  Any update on hotel provider for Trinity Wharf? 
•  When will work on green space at Fisher’s Row be completed? 
•  Plans for performance space at old crazy price’s site. 
•  Will N11/N25 design take account of active travel requirements, particularly at junctions. 
•  Request for night-time security or early warning system at the Raven to tackle issue of 

fires. 

•  Request that a contact number be put in place for people to report anti-social incidents in 

Parks. 

•  Update on status of potential sites for new schools. 
•  Positive feedback on bolt bicycles which were launched in Wexford. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

Cllr.’s J. O’Rourke and J. Hegarty left the meeting at this point. 

•  Update on potential for single stage housing projects for Enniscorthy. 
•  Any plans for modular housing? 
•  Has Minister Ryan agreed to provide additional funding for active travel in Enniscorthy? 
•  Has St. Aidan’s school fallen off the list for the safe routes to school programme? 
•  Can detail of house types be included in Chief Executive report? i.e., 1, bed, 2 bed etc. 
•  Request for an explanation of what “refusal to consider” means in terms of planning. 
•  Update on the use of CCTV for enforcement of littering offences. 
•  Timeline for proposed affordable housing projects for each of the towns. 
•  Once a hotel site is identified and secured in New Ross, what are the next steps? 
•  Any progress on funding for restoration of roads in New Ross town post flooding? 

Cllr. M. Sheehan proposed that Wexford County Council write to Minister Humphreys 
expressing concern that some people impacted by the mini tornado in Clongeen in 
November 2022 appear to not have received any support from the Red Cross or the Dept. 

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
of Social Protection. We ask that the Minister confirm that arrangements have been put in 
place and if not, what arrangements will be put in place to support the people affected. 
This was seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed by all. 

County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

•  Gratitude and thanks were expressed to all parties involved in getting Wexford General 

hospital re-opened and neighbouring hospitals which provided support. 

•  Timeline for Rosslare Europort Access Road decision. 
•  Possibility of TII undertaking road works on the N11 at night. 
•  Request for up-to-date list of taking in charge applications. 
•  Update on proposed pilot for Ramsgrange wastewater project. 
•  Update on planning enforcement of short term lets. 
•  Any progress on investment in Waterford airport? 
•  When will two bus stops at Tagoat be completed? 
•  Current status of Rosslare Europort Access Road. 
•  Request that station road in Rosslare be maintained. 
•  Request that every mechanism be used to avoid the fires service going on all out strike. 

Cllr.’s M. Sheehan, B. Murphy and G. Carthy left the meeting at this point. 

•  Timeline for completion of public lighting at Min Ryan Park. 
•  Timeline for installation of CCTV in Wexford town. 
•  Update on proposals for Mechanics Institute and potential for use by a local band. 

Cllr. A. Connick left the meeting at this point. 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed by all, the Council 
agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue past 5.30pm. 

•  Query as to why Templeshannon was not included in URDF application. 
•  Request for active travel funding for Enniscorthy North Business Park Phase 2. 
•  What options available to developers who wish to build small schemes in areas such as 
Adamstown, Fethard, and Wellingtonbridge, if they don’t have wastewater capacity. 

•  Request for time and agenda for Ukranian Forum Meeting on 26th June. 
•  Observation that deadline for community recognition fund works need to be flexible. 
•  Acknowledgement of successful climate action event in County Hall on 1st June. 
•  Request for an initiative to deal with dog fouling and the issue of dog fouling being bagged 

and discarded in public areas. 

6.  Minutes of CPG Meeting 6th June, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Minutes of the meeting of the CPG of 6th June, 2023. 

7.  Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

7.1      New Ross Municipal District Meeting –  11th April, 2023 
7.2      Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 26th April, 2023 

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

             7.3      Borough District of Wexford Meeting– 17th April, 2023 
             7.4      Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 17th April, 2023 
             7.5      Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 18th April, 2023 
             7.6      Special Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting Minutes 20th April, 2023 

The minutes of the above meetings were noted. 

8.  Correspondence and Communications 

8.1       Letter from Clare County Council re motion dated 9th May, 2023 
8.2       Letters from Kerry County Council re motions dated 16th May, 2023 
8.3       Email from Minister Ryan’s office re motion coastal change dated 1st June, 2023 
8.4       Email from Minister O'Brien’s office re: vacant property refurbishment grant dated     
             1st June,  2023 

The Members noted the above correspondence. 

9.  Councillor’s Conferences and Training 

9.1 

List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council approved 
attendance for the following training: 

Training: 

Various Dates 

AILG – Local Authority Elected Member Training Programme 
2023 

9.2 

  Councillor's Conference Reports: 

Conference Report Cllr.   F. Staples - The Suck Valley Way, 5/6 April, 2023 
Active Travel Study Tour Report 21st May, 2023– 24th May, 2023 
Ancient Connections Civic Visit Delegation Report 28th – 30th May, 2023  

The Members noted the reports above, as circulated. 

10. Notices of Motion 

10.1    Cllr.  T. Forde,  Cllr. D. Hynes and Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 
"This council commends the invaluable work of our Fire Service, and the manner in which 
they serve with courage, commitment and professionalism and we call on Fianna Fáil 
Minister Darragh O Brien and Fine Gael Minister Paschal Donohue to agree to serious and 
meaningful proposals to protect this Service and to address the recruitment and retention 
crisis through drastic improvements to the working conditions and life entitlements of fire 
fighters". 

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

Executive Response: 
If passed, this Motion will be forwarded to Minister O’Brien and Minister Donohoe, for 
consideration. 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin and carried. 

10.2    Cllr. G. Lawlor 
“Wexford County Council ceases using the term ‘Halting Sites’ in the County and 
begins renaming with a name more appropriate to the area. The naming should happen 
following a public consultation process and engagement with the local community.  
We also request that this motion be sent to all Councils throughout the country for 
consideration." 

Executive Response: 

The County Wexford Local Traveller Accommodation Consultative Committee is the 
representative body who advise on the provision and overall management approach for 
Traveller Accommodation in the County.  The Housing Executive will bring the matter 
contained in the motion to the members of LTACC for consideration.   

The motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and carried. 

10.3    Cllr. M. Sheehan 
“In the context of the preparations for the 2024 County Council Budget framework, that 
this council agrees in principle to significantly increase the annual art and amenity grants to 
assist local and community groups address the inflation / cost of living adjustments in their 
areas and upon adoption, this decision is forwarded to the relevant Directorate for 
implementation. “ 

Executive Response: 

This budget line was increased by 17% during the 2023 Budget process to address 
inflationary concerns and has been increased by 40% (€170,000 to €238,000) since 2019.  
In any case there can be no commitment made for any budget allocation for 2024 until full 
information of funding is known.  Budgets lines will be determined by the availability of 
funding or the reduction of expenditure in other programmes.  If passed the matter will be 
included on the 2024 Budget File for further discussion with the Budget Strategy Group in 
September/October 2023. 

This motion fell as Cllr. M. Sheehan wasn’t present to move the motion. 

Cllr. L. Kelly left the meeting at this point. 

10.4    Cllr. T. Forde,  Cllr. D. Hynes and Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 
"We ask that this council, across all districts, dedicate one property from all 
developments, including AHBs, for the specific function of providing "own front door" 
homes for local individuals or families that are homeless. This would be done in an effort to 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.06.23 

reduce homelessness in our county, to provide more stable accommodation, to better 
reintegrate those experiencing homelessness, to mitigate the long-term impacts of 
homelessness, and to substantially lower the demands on the public purse than the State's 
current reliance on hotels and B&B’s”. 

Executive Response: 

Emergency homeless provision is a specific type of temporary accommodation provided 
where a household is deemed homeless and cannot secure any alternative housing option.  
There is specific funding provided for this accommodation through the Regional Homeless 
Structure.  The Local Authority utilises a variety of different housing options to provide for 
households who find themselves in a homeless situation, including Ozanam House, a 
number of own door properties and private bed & breakfast providers.  

The Local Authority currently reserves between 5 & 10% of social housing allocations for 
those who have been at risk of and homelessness, including long term homeless through 
working with approved housing bodies, through the councils own social housing stock and 
outside of this, through supporting households to secure private rented accommodation.    

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin. There 
was a lengthy discussion on the motion, after which, Mr. T. Enright proposed the inclusion 
of “where possible and practical” to the motion. This was agreed by all and the following 
wording of the motion carried: 

"We ask that this council where possible and practical, across all districts, dedicate one 
property from all developments, including AHBs, for the specific function of providing "own 
front door" homes for local individuals or families that are homeless. This would be done in 
an effort to reduce homelessness in our county, to provide more stable accommodation, to 
better reintegrate those experiencing homelessness, to mitigate the long-term impacts of 
homelessness, and to substantially lower the demands on the public purse than the State's 
current reliance on hotels and B&B’s”. 

11. Any Other Business 

There was no other business. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Iúil, 2023. 

________________________  
Cllr. John Fleming 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea  
County Secretary 

Page 10 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
