County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 8 March, 2021 (via MS TEAMS) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Ger Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN 

FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CODD 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD  SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

STAPLES 

 FRANK 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WALSH 

OLIVER 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 
Mr. Sean Dobbs, Project Manager, Roads Department 

Apologies:  Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive  

Page 1 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

o  Ms. Leona Reville, Bannow 
o  Mr. Patsy Bennett, Clonroche 
o  Ms. Helen McGreevy, Clonroche 
o  Mr. James Doran, Tintern 
o  Ms. Brigid Murphy, Wellington Bridge 
o  Mrs. Betty Donovan, Wexford Town 
o  Mr. Ken O’Hara, Rosslare Harbour 
o  Ms. Dympna Donohoe, Curracloe 
o  Ms. Margaret Jackman, Killlurin 
o  Ms. Stacia Ryan, New Ross 
o  Mr. Martin O’Neill, New Ross 
o  Mr. Patrick (Nicko) Hamilton, New Ross 
o  Mr. John Doyle, New Ross 
o  Mr. Denis North, New Ross 
o  Mr. Thomas Kirby, New Ross 

The Council congratulated the following: 

•  The Mahoney and Cullen Families, following their performances in “Ireland’s Fittest Family” 
•  Mr.  Michael  Brazil,  Dr.  Ronan  O’Flaherty  and  all  involved  in  the  development  of  Forth 

Mountain Walking Trails 

•  DFDS Shipping Group, following launch of a fourth ship on the ferry line between Dunkerque 

and Rosslare.   

•  All Wexford selections on the Club Team of the Year 
•  All community litter picking groups 
•  Organisers of the 20k North Wexford fundraiser on behalf of Wexford Hospice 
•  Former Councillor Larry O’Brien, on the occasion of the 34th anniversary of the sinking of the 

Herald of Free Enterprise, for his heroism during that tragic event  

•  Bree Development Group, for their work in extending walking trail to Ballybrittas Dolmen 
•  All involved in making International Women’s Day a success 
• 

Jockey Pat Dobbs, following his continued international success  

1. 

Update on Oilgate-Rosslare Harbour Scheme 

Mr. Sean Dobbs, Project Manager attended the meeting and presented a Newsletter which 
outlined  many  of  the  complexities  and  challenges  surrounding  the  Scheme  route  option 
selection process. The Report identified that the preferred scheme option will be confirmed 
and announced by week ending 18th of June. 

DoS Eamonn Hore pointed out that the preparatory work currently being carried out by the 
scheme consultants would help to fully inform the route selection process. While this work 
was complex and time consuming, these preparatory works will minimize the risk of delay 
to the project, following selection of the preferred route.  

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

2. 

Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1. 

County Council Meeting – 8 February, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Council resolved to 
adopt the above Minutes. 

Matters Arising: 

Councilors Walsh, Sullivan and Bolger asked that Item 10. of the Minutes be amended 
to reflect the fact that they voted against hearing the Emergency Motion.  

2.2. 

Special County Council Meeting – 22 February, 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Council resolved to 
adopt the above Minutes. 

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 
Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1  

LAC2005 – Upgrade the existing Ferndale Park with the following: Car park, single 
storey gymnasium, maintenance shed, MUGA areas, outdoor walking track through 
park with fitness equipment in 2 no. locations, various planting throughout and all 
associated site works at Ferndale Park, Wexford.  

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Council agreed to 
that the proposed development should be carried out as recommended in the 
report of the Chief Executive as circulated. 

4. 

Bye-Laws for the Regulation of all Open Burial Grounds within the jurisdiction of 
Wexford County Council.  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes the Council resolved to 
make the above Byelaws in accordance with the draft byelaws as circulated, in accordance 
with Part 19 of the Local Government Act as amended.  

5. 

Bye-Laws for the regulation and control of the consumption of intoxicating liquor within 
the jurisdiction of Wexford County Council 

On the proposal of Cllr. BA Murphy, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council resolved to 
make the above Byelaws in accordance with the draft byelaws as circulated, in accordance 
with Part 19 of the Local Government Act as amended.  

Page 3 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

6. 

Rebuilding Ireland Home Loan Borrowing Requirement – Approval in accordance with 
Section 106 of the Local Government Act, 2001 

Having considered the report of the Head of Finance as circulated, and on the proposal of 
Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore, the Council resolved to approve the borrowing 
of €7,430,000 to fund the 2021 Housing Mortgage Programme, in accordance with Section 
106 of the Local Government Act, 2001. 

7. 

3-Year Capital Programme 2021 – 2023 

Head of Finance Ms. Annette O’Neill presented the proposed 3-yr Capital Programme for 
the Council’s consideration. The Programme outlined 172 capital projects at various stages 
of completion together with estimated costs and proposed sources of funding. 

The Programme was prepared on the basis of a realistic and prudent assessment of the 
position regarding each project and on the basis of the information available at the time 
and having regard to the measures proposed to fund the Programme. 

The Members considered the Programme and raised a number of points for clarification 
which were responded to by Ms. O’Neill, including the following: 

o  Refurbishment of Wexford Arts Centre 
o  Dredging of Wexford Quays 
o  Construction of Rosslare to Waterford Greenway 
o  Construction of New Ross Greenway and possible link to St. Mullins 
o  Extension of Gas Pipeline to New Ross 
o  Refurbishment of Castlebridge House 
o  WCC Submission to NDP Plan Review (to be circulated to all members) 
o  Bunclody Link Road 
o  New Ross Courthouse 
o  Heritage projects in Bannow area 
o  Gorey Town Park 
o  Courtown Coast Protection Works & proposed Marina 
o  Enniscorthy Flood Scheme 
o  Wexford to Curracloe Greenway 
o  Proposed renewal of Oyster Lane / Lowney’s Mall/ Dun Mhuire area 

8. 

Meeting of Protocol Committee 08.02.2021 – Consideration of Minutes and 
recommendations 

n the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, the Council noted and 
approved the Minutes of the Protocol Committee, including the recommendations therein. 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

9. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Members raised a number of matters which were responded to the Chief Executive 
and the respective Directors of Service, including the following: 

•  Seaview Kilmore – The Council awaits report of OPW in relation to the proposed 

works 

•  Carlow IT Wexford Campus – Representatives of Carlow IT to attend April meeting 

of the Council 

•  Applications for retention of log cabins – will be treated on merits of each 

application 

•  Notification of water outages – public encouraged to register for MapAlerter 
•  Water bursts on Forth Road – rehabilitation scheme has been approved to move to 

design stage 

•  Enniscorthy Technology Park – building has commenced construction – works to 

• 

resume following lifting of construction restrictions  
Impending closure of Ulster Bank – Council to investigate plans for re-letting in view 
of prominence of building 

•  Arthurstown/ Ballyhack/ Duncannon Sewerage Scheme – Design/Build/Operate 

contract has been awarded 

•  Adoption of new County Development Plan- comprehensive submission received 
from Office of the Planning Regulator – will require some amendment of the draft 
Plan 
Increase in Funding for local roads – €1.4m a welcome increase which will allow 
some small amount of additional works to be carried out 

• 

•  Town Centre Enhancement Project – single town to be selected based on project 
criteria and capacity of selected open space area to deliver expected impacts 

•  High Hill Development – Tender return date 10 March, 2021 
•  Casual Trading licences – a countywide system to be developed to ensure 

consistency 

•  Old Dublin Road renewal project – a programme of road, footpath, landscaping and 
signage improvement with improved transport linkage to town – master plan to be 
developed and funding dependent 

•  Waste Presentation Byelaws – 388 letters issued on foot of enquiries with 100 cases 

of “no response” being followed up 

•  Boundary wall at Bunclody Graveyard – A/DoS to respond to Cllr. BA Murphy 

10.  Minutes of CPG  

10.1   Minutes of CPG Meeting 01.03.2021  

Proposed by Cllr. Barden, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

11.   Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

11.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 13.01.2021 
11.2   Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting 19.01.2020 
11.3   Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 18.01.2021 
11.4   Borough District of Wexford Meeting -  18.01.2021 
11.5   Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 18.01.2021 

The Member noted the above Minutes 

12. 

Correspondence and Communications 

12.1   Email from Dublin City Council re: Women’s Committee Letter to Minister O’Gorman 

and  Minister O’Brien dated 4th February, 2021. 

12.2   Letters from Clare County Council dated 9th February, 2021. 
12.3   Letter from Kerry County Council dated 12th February, 2021. 
12.4   Letters from Tipperary County Council dated 15th February, 2021. 
12.5   Letter from South Dublin County Council dated 16th February, 2021. 
12.6   Letters from Kerry County Council dated 16th February, 2021. 
12.7   Letter from Tipperary County Council dated 23rd February, 2021 
12.8   Letter from Aiden Kelly, Private Secretary to Minister Charlie McConalogue TD dated 

23rd February, 2021. 

12.9   Letter from Laois County Council re Land Development Agency Bill dated 1st March,     

2021. 

The Members noted the above correspondence 

Suspension of Standing Orders 

It now being 5.30pm, and on the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Owens, the Members 
agreed to suspend Standing Orders to allow the Meeting to continue. 

13. 

Notices of Motion 

13.1  Cllr. L. Kelly  

"That  Wexford  County  Council  will  write  to  the  Minister  for  Enterprise,  Trade  and 
Employment  that  international  trade  agreements,  such  as  CETA  providing  a  right  to 
multinational corporations to sue Ireland outside the democracy of the ordinary legal and 
democratic systems, should be fully and properly scrutinised by the Oireachtas before any 
Dáil  vote  on  ratification.  Also  TDs  should  be  allowed  a  vote  of  conscience  on  such  an 
important and far reaching issue."  

Cllr. Kelly proposed the Motion which was seconded by Cllr. Forde.  

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

Following debate, and on the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan 
the Motion was amended as follows: 

"That  Wexford  County  Council  welcomes  the  decision  of  the  Government  to  refer  the 
proposed CETA trade agreement to an Oireachtas Joint Committee by the Government for 
further consideration. The Council recommends that in any subsequent Dáil vote TD’s should 
be allowed a vote of conscience on such an important and far reaching issue."  

The amended Motion was put to the meeting and at the request of the Cathaoirleach, the 
subsequent vote was taken by roll call, with the outcome of that vote as follows: 

PAT 
MAURA 
ANDREW 
PIP 
AIDAN 
CATHAL 
GER 
JIM 

Monthly Meting of WCC 8.3.21 - Motion 13.1 - Outcome Roll Call Vote 
MARY 
FARRELL 
F 
BARDEN 
JOHN 
FLEMING 
F 
BELL 
TOM 
F 
FORDE 
BOLGER 
JOHN 
F  HEGARTY 
BREEN 
DAVID 
F  HYNES 
BROWNE 
F  KAVANAGH  WILLIE 
BYRNE 
F  KELLY 
CARTHY 
F  KENNY 
CODD 
CODD-NOLAN  KATHLEEN  AB  LAFFAN 
ANTHONY 
CONNICK 
LAWLOR 
DIARMUID 
DEVEREUX 
ANTHONY  AB  MOORE 
DONOHOE 

F  MURPHY 
F  MURPHY 
F  O’ROURKE 
F  O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 
F  OWENS 
F  SHEEHAN 
LEONARD  F  STAPLES 
DONAL 
GARY 
GEORGE 

BARBARA-ANNE  F 
F 
BRIDIN 
F 
JOHN 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 
F 

F  SULLIVAN 
F  WALSH 
F  WHELAN 
F 
F 

F 
F  MCDONALD  LISA 
JIM 
F = For, A = Against, AB = Absent /Abstain 

JACKSER 
MICHAEL 
 FRANK 
JOE 
OLIVER 
MICHAEL 

13.2  Cllr. T.  Forde 

“This Council insists that no local authority or public land should be sold, re-purposed or 
gifted to the LDA, or any other DAC, without the expressed consent of the elected members, 
by majority vote, on a site by site basis”. 

Cllr. Forde proposed the Motion.  Following debate, and on the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, 
seconded by A. Bolger, the Motion was amended as follows: 

“This Council insists that no local authority or public land located within a census town area 
with a population below 40,000 persons should be sold, re-purposed or gifted to the LDA, or 
any other DAC, without the expressed consent of the elected members, by majority vote, on 
a site by site basis”. 

The amended Motion was put to the meeting and agreed by all. 

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

13.3  Cllr. J. Moore 

“In response to the post-Brexit difficulties already experienced by our Fishing Fleet, Fish 
Processors and Export Businesses I propose that Wexford County Council formally applies 
for urgent assistance from the established Special Post-Brexit EU Fisheries Grants to 
upgrade a number of piers, harbours and related shore facilities”. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Moore, seconded by Cllr. Staples and agreed by all. 

13.4  Cllr. M. Sheehan 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Housing and Local Government to order a review 
of the income limits and eligibility criteria for the Housing Assistance Payment to more 
accurately reflect people’s circumstances and the current rental market.” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Sheehan. Following debate, and on the proposal of Cllr. J. 
Sullivan, seconded by G. Laffan, the Motion was amended as follows: 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Housing and Local Government to order a review 
of the income limits and eligibility criteria for the Housing Assistance Payment in respect of 
the Gorey-Kilmuckridge Local Electoral Area  to more accurately reflect people’s 
circumstances and the current rental market.” 

The amended Motion was put to the meeting and agreed by all. 

13.5.1  Cllr. G. Lawlor 

“that Wexford Co. Council formalises it’s policy regarding homeowners applying for 
social housing supports who are in possession of either a safety order, a protection order 
or a barring order against their spouse/partner or co-owner. This Housing SPC proposes 
that applicants in this situation be allowed access to social housing supports all else 
being in order.”   

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Lawlor. Following debate, and on the proposal of Cllr. C. 
Byrne, seconded by L. McDonald, the Motion was amended as follows: 

“that Wexford Co. Council formalises it’s policy regarding homeowners applying for 
social housing supports who are in possession of either a safety order or a protection 
order against their spouse/partner or co-owner. This Housing SPC proposes that 
applicants in this situation be allowed access to social housing supports all else being in 
order.”   

The amended Motion was put to the meeting and agreed by all. 

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

13.6  Cllrs T. Forde, J. Codd, D. Hynes, F. O' Suilleabhán, J. Owens 

‘Due to the extent and nature of the homelessness problem in County Wexford we request 
that a minimum of 6 unisex ‘crash beds’ (emergency placements open to receive people 
throughout the night) be made available by Wexford County Council, in different districts, 
to provide safe shelter for our homeless, 7 nights per week, and that this is implemented 
with near immediate effect, as soon as is operationally possible.’ 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Codd, seconded by by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by all. 

13.7   Cllr. F. Staples, Cllr. G. Carthy, Cllr. L. McDonald, Cllr. J. Moore, Cllr. J. Codd 

“That the Rosslare Municipal District call on Wexford County Council to enact an out of 
hours service for people who find themselves homeless including rough sleepers” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Staples, seconded by the Cathaoirleach and agreed by 
all. 

13.8  Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin  

“That Wexford County Council acknowledges that despite higher rents in County Wexford 
to many parts of neighbouring counties, the HAP rates are far lower than those in 
neighbouring counties. That we will write to the Minister requesting that our HAP rates be 
updated, so as to be brought up to a more realistic level, and in line with that of Co. 
Wicklow and other counties". 

Cllr. F. Súilleabháin withdrew the Motion 

13.9  Cllr. D. Hynes  

“This council should look at the staff of the supermarket and other workplaces who received 
parking fines, and look at the fact that in earlier lockdowns parking fines were 
suspended and workers were not prepared for the reintroduction of parking fines on the 
occasion. Therefore we should look in a compassionate way and waive these recent fines in 
this instance.” 

Cllr. Hynes proposed the Motion. However, following discussion, the Motion was not put.  

Noting the sentiment behind the Motion, DoS E. Hore undertook to sympathetically review 
any appeals from “essential workers” in respect of the particular incident on a case by case 
basis. 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.03.21 

It being 6.30pm, the Cathaoirleach thanked all for their attendance and closed the meeting 

Daingithe ar an           lá de  Aibreáin, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr. Ger Carthy 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
David Minogue 
County Secretary 

Page 10 of 10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
