Byrne 

Codd 

County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held Monday 8th July 2024 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Boland 

Pat  
(Online) 
Nicky 

Kehoe 

Pat 

O’Rourke 

John 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Ó Súilleabháin 

Fionntán 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kenny 

Cathal 

Laffan 

Donal 
(Online) 
Garry 

Owens 

Jackser 

Shannon 

Raymond 

Jim 

Lawlor  

George 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

McDonald 

Darragh 

Staples 

Dwyer 

John 

McDonald 

Farrell 

Fleming 

Mary 
(Online) 
John 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Lisa 
(Online) 
Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Staples 

Sullivan 

Walsh 

Forde  

Tom 

Murphy 

Marty 

Walsh 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Frank  
(Online) 
Robbie 

Joe 

Catherine 
Biddy 
 Oliver 

Officials: 

Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Lacey, A/Head of Finance 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: Cllr. G. Carthy 

Mr. S. Howell, A/Director of Services 

Page 1 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

•  The family of Claire Hogan, Roads Section 
•  The  family  of  John  (Jack)  Gleeson,  father  of  John  Gleeson,  Foreman,  Roads  Department, 

Rosslare Municipal District  

•  The  family  of  Siobhan  Rochford,  sister  of  Aidan  Rochford,  Executive  Engineer,  Special 

Projects Department. 

•  The  family  of  Anne  Doran,  mother  of  Angie  Laffan,  former  District  Manager,  Wexford 

Borough District and grandmother of Lisa Howlin, Housing Section 

•  The  family  of  Evelyn  Kerins,  sister  of  Breege  Cosgrave,  Head  of  Enterprise  and  Economic 

Development 

•  The  family  of  Theresa  (Tess)  Kavanagh  (née  Byrne),  mother  of  Michael  Kavanagh,  Water 

Services and mother-in-law of Claire Rochford, Liaison Officer 

•  The family of Paul Rochford, brother of Claire Rochford, Liaison Officer, Gorey Municipal  

District  

•  The family of James (Jimmy) Edwards, father of Claire Howlin, IT Department 
•  The family of John Caffrey, husband of Annette Caffrey (former employee) 
•  The family of Will Ring, son of our former colleague Rob Ring. 
•  The family of John McLaren Ironside, father of Caroline Crowe, Wexford Borough Municipal  

             District            

•  The family Patrick McDonald, father of Angie McDonald, Rates Dept and father-in-law of  

James Murphy, Credit Control. 

On behalf of the Fianna Fáil Councilor’s and the Members of the Enniscorthy Municipal District Cllr. 
A. Browne offered sympathy to the Goff family on the passing of Henry Goff. Cllr. Browne outlined 
that Mr. Goff was a former Fianna Fáil representative on the Enniscorthy Urban District Council and 
served as Chairman in 1978. He was principal of St. Senan’s Primary School, and he was part of the 
Wexford senior hurling team that won a National Hurling League title in 1973. 

Congratulations: 

Cllr. J. Owens congratulated the organisers of the Relay for Life event. 
Cllr. J. Codd congratulated the organisers of the Bannow and Rathangan show and the Phil Murphy 
weekend. 
Cllr.’s M. Sheehan, P. Barden and J. Codd congratulated the organisers of the Adamstown show. 
Cllr. A. R. O’Brien congratulated Simon Bourke on the success of his novel A Place Without Pain. 
Cllr.  F  Ó  Súilleabháin  congratulated  Kayleigh  Byrne  on  winning  a  bronze  medal  at  the  European 
Junior Boxing Championships. 
Cllr. O. Walsh congratulated Bertram Allen on winning the Aachen Nations Cup in Germany. 
Cllr. J. Fleming congratulated Aidan O’Brien on winning the Irish Derby with Los Angeles. 
Cllr. M. Sheehan congratulated the organisers of the Guitar festival. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 County Council Meeting 13th May, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor the Council resolved 
to confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 13th May, 2024. 

Page 2 of 9 

 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

1.2 Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 21st June, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 21st June, 
2024. 

2.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1  Intention to dispose of a site at Killagoley, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford 
On the proposal of Cllr. A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh the Council resolved to 
dispose of a site at Killagoley, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set 
out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.2  Formalise a rectification at Ballinaslaney, Oylegate, Co. Wexford 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh the Council resolved to 
formalise a rectification at Ballinaslaney, Oylegate, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.3 Disposal of property at Camolin, Kilcomb ED, Co. Wexford 
On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at Camolin, Kilcomb ED, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set 
out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.4 Formalise a rectification of boundaries at Knockina, Gorey, Co. Wexford 
On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan the Council resolved to 
formalise a rectification of boundaries at Knockina, Gorey, Co. Wexford, in accordance with 
the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.5 Transfer of land, Ballywilliam, New Ross, Co. Wexford 
On the proposal of Cllr. J. Dwyer, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
transfer a piece of land at Ballywilliam, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3.  

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 
Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

LAC2403 - Renovation & alterations to Gorey Market House, Main Street, Gorey, Co. 
Wexford (A Protected Structure – RPS No. WCC0213 – NIAH REF No. 15601064) and new 
building with link to Market House & external works to surrounding lands. Archaeological 
and architectural impact assessments will be available for inspection. See application form 
for full description of works. At Gorey Market House, Main Street, Gorey Co. Wexford. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, 
seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for renovation & 
alterations to Gorey Market House, Main Street, Gorey, Co. Wexford (A Protected 
Structure – RPS No. WCC0213 – NIAH REF No. 15601064) and new building with link to 
Market House & external works to surrounding lands, in accordance with the terms of 
LAC2403, as circulated. 

Page 3 of 9 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 

Plant Replacement Programme 2024 

County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

Ms. L. Lacey circulated a report outlining a proposal for a plant replacement programme. 
Twenty-eight vehicles have been identified as requiring replacement, as they are in excess 
of 11 years old, and are now uneconomical to maintain.  

The replacement of the twenty-eight vehicles will cost €2,190,158 inclusive of VAT. It is 
proposed to finance the acquisitions through a five-year lease arrangement. The funding of 
the replacement programme will be from the profits of the Machinery Yard and will have 
no impact on the revenue budget.  

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Members resolved 
to approve the Plant Replacement Programme. 

5. 

Draft Borough District of Wexford Street Performance Bye-Laws 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan the Members resolved to 
defer the consideration of the Draft Borough District of Wexford Street Performance Bye-
Laws 2024, pending further discussion. 

6. 

Draft Casual Trading Bye-Laws, 2024 Fleadh Cheoil na h'Éireann, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke, the Members resolved to 
adopt the Draft Casual Trading Bye-Laws, Fleadh Cheoil na h'Éireann, 2024, as circulated. 

7. 

Draft Traveller Accommodation Programme 2025 - 2029 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Codd, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Members resolved to 
adopt the Draft Traveller Accommodation Programme 2025 – 2029, as circulated. 

8. 

Nominations to LCDC 

8.1 Nomination of Dr. Karina Daly as WWETB Representative to LCDC replacing Mr. Michael 

O’Brien. 
On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne, the Members resolved to 
approve the nomination of Dr. Karina Daly as WWETB Representative to LCDC replacing 
Mr. Michael O’Brien. 

8.2 Nomination of Meghan Callanan as Department of Social Protection Representative to 

LCDC replacing Patricia Delaney. 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan, the Members 
resolved to approve the nomination of Meghan Callanan as Department of Social 
Protection Representative to LCDC replacing Patricia Delaney. 

8.3 Nomination of Ms. Linda Sinnott as PPN Community & Voluntary Representative to 

LCDC replacing Brian Toomey. 

Page 4 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the Members 
resolved to approve the nomination of Ms. Linda Sinnott as PPN Community & 
Voluntary Representative to LCDC replacing Brian Toomey. 

9. 

Invitation to New Ross Municipal District for delegation to attend the Eugene O’Neill 
Festival in Danville, California in September, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Members resolved 
to send a delegation from New Ross Municipal District to attend the Eugene O’Neill Festival 
in Danville, California in September, 2024. 

10. 

Chief Executives Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

Update sought in relation to the N11/N25 upgrade works. 
Query if the current sterilised corridor on the N11/N25 project can be reduced to 70   
metres in width. 
Update sought on Larkin’s Cross safety works and funding for same. Query if the 
proposed works can be rolled out to 5 other dangerous junctions. 
Status update on dereliction issue of former leisure centre at Hookless Village. 
Update sought on Coastguard building in Kilmore. 
Update sought on master planning of land at Killeens, Wexford. 
Query as to whether there has been any engagement with Our Lady of Fatima 
School in relation to facilities. 
Annoyance and frustration expressed in relation to the boiled water notice in Ferns 
and the poor communication from Uisce Éireann in relation to same. 
Timeline sought for delivery of units in Castlelands, Ferns and reasons for delay. 
Clarification sought on the number of car fires which were in electric cars. 
Was an environmental study completed for the N11/N25 project and will another 
one be undertaken? 
When will Town Centre First team for Wexford be setup? 
What is the policy for spraying weeds in public spaces? 
Can the Bolt bike scheme be extended to Castlebridge and other areas? 
Do we have any sense of the financial health of our rate payers? 
Update sought on the Wexford to Rosslare greenway. 
Request that Wexford County Council write to the Gardaí regarding a raid on 
fishermen in Kilmore. 
Request for road safety measures at Clohamon Cross. 
Proposed works for Murphy Floods site welcomed. 
Request that affordable housing schemes be delivered across all Municipal Districts 
in the County during the life of this Council. 
Are we testing to ensure there is no mica or pyrite in building products in Wexford? 
Has any progress been made in relation to the confirmed case (mica/pyrite) and the 
property owners’ ability to access the redress scheme? 

Page 5 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

• 

• 
• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 
• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

In relation to the N11/N25 project are Wexford County Council going to wait until 
2028 or 2030 to deal with the ancillary issues such as Starvehall? 
Is Wexford County Council considering pushing out village boundaries to slow down 
traffic? 
Who is responsible for cleaning and maintaining two graveyards in the Hook? 
Request that the A/Head of Finance produce a position paper on options in relation 
to rates and the striking off rates. The case was made that not striking off rates on 
vacant properties might stimulate activity. 
Request that a Local Area Plan be drafted for New Ross. 
Query as to which roads are impacted by the proposed new speed limits. 
Has the Vacant Homes Officer position been filled or is it in the process of being 
filled? 
How many villages have a water supply coming from a river? 
Is Fire Service at full staffing compliment? 
When will cameras for road safety survey at Clohamon be installed? 
Timeline for commencement of Local Area Plan for Enniscorthy? 
Request for loudspeakers in Enniscorthy graveyard for pattern mass. 
Request for flood relief scheme for Enniscorthy. 
Request that the Fire Officer visiting pubs in the lead into the Fleadh work with 
publicans to find a cost-effective solution. 
Is the removal of windows in pubs during the Fleadh to facilitate serving only a 
temporary measure? 
Request that safety on the Ballinaboola to Begerin Hill section of road be reviewed. 
Query as to what Wexford County Council’s responsibility is in relation to Japanese 
knotweed. 
Update sought on Curracloe water supply scheme. 
Update on potential relocation of WSPCA to site at Clonard Little. 
Is there an issue with facilitating week on/week off in the Fire Service? 
How many families living in bungalows who don’t need a bungalow? Can we 
facilitate a transfer? 
Frustration expressed with Member’s Portal – response times are slow. 
Request for induction training for new Members and a phonebook for key staff. 
Query if roadside hedging can be cut by farmers outside statutory timeframes if it 
presents a road safety issue. 
Request that a facility be put in place whereby homeless people who are availing of 
crash beds have somewhere to go between 9am and 9pm. 
Request that mobile phone black spots on the Newline Road be brought to the 
relevant authority’s attention. 
Request that compilers be sent back into the field to assist with the Register of 
Electors. 
Request that Wexford County Council continues to seek a cross-party meeting with 
the Minister for Agriculture. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

Cllr.’s J. O’Rourke and J. Owens left the meeting at this point. 

Page 6 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
11.  Minutes of CPG 

County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

11.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 1st July, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the CPG Meeting of 1st July, 2024. 

Ms. A. Byrne informed the Members that the process of drafting a new Corporate Plan has 
commenced and a briefing document will be brought to the Members. Ms. Byrne also 
advised that the Women’s Coalition will be re-established for the new Council. 

11.2 Minutes of CPG Meeting 7th May, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the CPG Meeting of 7th May, 2024. 

12.  Minutes of Meetings (for Noting): 

12.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 10th April, 2024 
12.2   Rosslare Municipal District Meeting –17th April, 2024 
12.3   Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 15th April, 2024 
12.4   Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 15th April, 2024 
12.5   Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting –16th April, 2024 
12.6   Special Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting - 30th April, 2024 
12.7   Economic Development & Enterprise SPC Meetings 8th December,2023 & 
25th January, 2024 
12.8   Transportation & Water Services SPC Meeting – 12th December, 2023 

 The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

13. 

Correspondence and Communications 

13.1 Correspondence from Minister McConalogue's Office re motion dated 8th May, 2024 
13.2 Letter from Clare County Council re motion dated 14th May, 2024 
13.3 Letter from Monaghan County Council re motion dated 15th May, 2024 
13.4 Letter from Wicklow County Council re motion dated 20th May, 2024 
13.5 Letter from Office of the Tánaiste and Minister for Foreign Affairs re motion dated 
12th June, 2024 
13.6 Letter from Office of the Tánaiste and Minister for Foreign Affairs re motion dated 
14th June, 2024 

The Members noted the correspondence and communications, as circulated. 

14. 

Notices of Motion 

14.1  Cllr. Aoife Rose O’Brien  

"I ask Wexford County Council to write to Minister Helen McEntee and An Taoiseach Simon 
Harris to ask the Government to adopt a zero tolerance approach toward gender based 

Page 7 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

violence and ask that mandatory minimum sentencing be introduced in every conviction of 
sexual, domestic or gender based violent assault". 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. A. R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and carried. 

14.2  Cllr. Tom Forde 

"Wexford County Council will update it's response to severe weather and the Adverse 
Weather Protocol to ensure that it becomes operational in the event of any cold, rain, or 
wind alert (yellow, orange or red) as they have the potential to put the health and well-
being of rough sleepers and homeless people at risk." 

In accordance with standing order no. 16. (a) which states “If any Notice of Motion of 
which notice has been duly given relates to a matter normally dealt with by a Municipal 
District or any other Committee, or comes within the terms of reference of any Committee 
or Committees, it shall be referred to such Committee or Committees as the Meetings 
Administrator may determine” this motion has been referred to the Housing SPC as it 
relates to a housing policy matter. 

14.3  Cllr. Paddy Kavanagh  

“I proposed that all County council and District council meetings would be live streamed in 
the interest of transparency”. 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. P. Kavanagh and seconded by Cllr. N. Boland. After a 
lengthy discussion the motion was defeated on a show of hands. 

14.4  Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin  

“Wexford County Council acknowledges that speculators are taking advantage of 
the emergency planning legislation for IPAS accommodation, which allows them to bypass 
certain local planning procedures.  
We further acknowledge that such a policy contributes to a democratic deficit in terms of 
information and consultation for local communities, and that this can be unhelpful.  
In the interests of local democracy, and as an attempt to reduce any potential tensions, 
that could arise (as witnessed in many areas) we call on the relevant Minister to revert 
control to Local Authorities in these matters.   
We ask that this be forwarded to other local authorities.” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. F Ó Súilleabháin and seconded by Cllr. T. Forde. After a 
lengthy discussion the motion was defeated on a show of hands. 

14.5  Cllr. Tom Forde & Aoife Rose O’Brien 

"We ask that Wexford County Council and the environment section engage with 
community groups, Tidy Town groups, and all political parties and current independents to 
establish designated areas for election posters in each district across County Wexford”. 

Page 8 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.07.24 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien. After a 
lengthy discussion the motion was defeated on a show of hands. 

14.6  Cllr. Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin  

“This council acknowledges the ongoing controversy concerning so-called 
'Affordable Homes' which have been delivered in Coolock, Dublin, under the Affordable 
Homes Scheme, and which have a market value of half million euro - way above the 
original estimated cost that had been given to local councillors. 

As Affordable homes are also set to be delivered in this county at Ramsfort, Gorey and 
elsewhere, we view this with alarm, and request that clarification be provided this summer 
on the approximate cost of our Affordable Homes to potential buyers here in County 
Wexford.” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and carried. 

15. 

Any Other Business 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. R. O’Brien and seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne, it was agreed that Cllr. 
O’Brien’s motion (Motion 14.1) will be sent to all Local Authorities in Ireland. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Meán Fómhair, 2024. 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 9 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
