County Council Meeting 13.12.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held in the Street, County Hall, Wexford Monday 13th December 2021 at 2.30pm  

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. B. A. Murphy Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY  MCDONALD 

BELL 

MAURA 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

LISA 

JIM 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

HYNES 

DAVID 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD 

STAPLES 

FRANK 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Liz Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Apologies: 

Cllrs:  

G. Carthy, A. Connick, W. Kavanagh, J. Owens 

Page 1 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.12.21 

1.  

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 

Council Meeting 08.11.2021 – 2.30pm 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. Kathleen Codd Nolan, the 
Minutes of the Meeting of Wexford County Council of 8th November 2021 (2.30pm) 
were adopted by the Council. 

1.2 

County Council Meeting 08.11.2021 – 4.30pm 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. Kathleen Codd Nolan, the 
Minutes of the Meeting of Wexford County Council of 8th November 2021 (4.30pm) 
were adopted by the Council. 

1.3  

Budget Meeting 29.11.2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the Minutes of the 
Budget Meeting of Wexford County Council of 29th November 2021 were adopted 
by the Council. 

2.  

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 
Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

2.1  

LAC2107 – Proposed Development at Adoration Convent, Bride Street, Wexford 
Town. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive in relation to the proposed 
development, and on the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the 
Council unanimously resolved that the proposed development proceed as 
recommended in the Chief Executive’s report. 

2.2 L  AC2108 - Proposed demolition of an existing derelict dwelling and the proposed 

construction of a 2-storey duplex containing 2 no. 1 bed units and a bungalow 
style 3 bed special needs house with associated site works at 15 Bullawn, New 
Ross, Co. Wexford. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive in relation to the proposed 
development, and on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden 
the Council unanimously resolved that the proposed development proceed as 
recommended in the Chief Executive’s report. 

Page 2 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.12.21 

3.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1  

Proposed disposal of land at Patrick Mernagh Park, Daphne View, Enniscorthy, Co. 
Wexford. 

Having considered the statutory S. 183 Notice in respect of the proposed disposal 
as circulated and on the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne, 
the Council unanimously resolved that the disposal proceed in accordance with the 
terms of the Notice. 

3.2  

Proposed intention to lease land at Mannix Place, Wexford. 

Having considered the statutory S. 183 Notice in respect of the proposed lease as 
circulated and on the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the 
Council unanimously resolved that the lease proceed in accordance with the terms 
of the Notice. 

3.3  

Proposed intention to lease two parcels of land in Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

Having considered the statutory S. 183 Notice in respect of the proposed lease as 
circulated and on the proposal of Cllr. A. Browne, seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke, the 
Council unanimously resolved that the lease proceed in accordance with the terms 
of the Notice. 

 4.  

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to the queries of 
the Members in relation to the following matters: 

•  Technological University for Southeast 
•  Provision of compost bin services 
•  Timeline for Broadband delivery throughout Wexford  
•  Housing for all – delivery programme 
•  Enniscorthy Sports Hub – Phase 2 
•  Enniscorthy Flood Relief Scheme – Ministerial approval 
•  Town First Initiative - Funding to support New Ross in mapping out its future 

development – opportunities to consult with the public 

•  Provision of Natural Gas in New Ross 
•  New Ross - Redevelopment of Courthouse and John Street Grainstore 
•  Winter Maintenance Programme 
•  Windfarm Policy  
•  Planning enforcement and delays by applicants in replying to further information 

requests 

•  Pyrite / Mica Redress Scheme 
•  Min Ryan Skatepark – delays in completion 

Page 3 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.12.21 

•  Housing Grant funding 
•  Assistance to victims of domestic abuse 
•  Allocation of vacant houses at Belvedere Road 
•  Members Portal – delay in response to queries raised 
•  Advertising – additional use of social media platforms 
•  Costs of Antigen Testing 

5. 

Minutes of CPG  

5.1  Meeting 6th December, 2021  

The Members noted the Notes of the CPG of 6th December, 2021. 

6.  

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting) 

6.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 13.10.2021 

6.2  

Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 18.10.2021 

6.3  

Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 18.10.2021 

6.4  

Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 18.10.2021 

6.5   Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 19.10.2021 

6.6  

Transportation & Water Services SPC – 24.03.2021 

6.7  

Economic Development & Enterprise SPC – 23.09.2021  

The Members noted the above Minutes 

7.  

Correspondence and Communications 

7.1 

7.2  

7.3  

7.4  

7.5  

Letter from Sean Fleming TD re motion Insurance to Community Groups dated 3rd  
November, 2021. 

Letter from Waterford City and County Council re motion (RICO) dated 25th 
November, 2021. 

Letter from Waterford City and County Council re motion (visual communication 
boards) dated 25th November, 2021. 

Letter from Galway County Council re motion (goods from occupied territories) 
dated 29th November, 2021. 

Letter from Breda Cahill, President, Wexford Federation ICA dated 28th 
November, 2021 

Page 4 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.12.21 

The Members noted the above items of correspondence 

8.  

Councillors Conferences and Training 

8.1 

8.2 

8.3 

Report of Cllr. John Fleming - Housing for All - How will it help people find 
homes?, held in Carlingford, Co. Louth. 

Report of Cllr. Barbara Anne Murphy - IPI Conference  "Delivering Plan Led 
Development", held in Clayton Whites Hotel on 17/18 November. 

Report of Cllr. John O'Rourke - Celtic Conferences - Mental Health & Wellbeing, 
Carlingford, Co. Louth. 

The Members noted the above conference reports 

9.  

Notices of Motions 

9.1       Cllr. Tom Forde 

“I ask for Wexford County Council’s ‘Severe Weather Protocol’ to be activated and 
become operational in the event of any weather alert or weather warning that 
could put the health and well-being of our rough sleepers and homeless at risk.” 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Forde and seconded by Cllr. O’Súilleabháin 

The Members noted the following response of Executive:  

This arrangement is already in place. 

Following debate, the Motion was amended to read as follows: 

“I ask for Wexford County Council’s ‘Severe Weather Protocol’ to be activated and 
become operational in the event of any orange or red weather alert and otherwise 
be activated at the discretion of the Director of Housing Services. 

The amended Motion was put to the meeting and agreed unanimously. 

The meeting having sat for 1 Hour 55 Minutes, the Cathaoirleach closed the meeting and joined 
with the Chief Executive in wishing the Members and officials a Very Happy Christmas.  

The following agenda items were deferred to the January meeting of the Council. 

Page 5 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.12.21 

 9.2       Cllr Davy Hynes 

“This council calls on the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage, to scrap the 
RAS scheme or remove the discriminatory criteria and allow tenants to remain on the 
Housing Transfer list as is the case in the HAP scheme. 

Response of Executive: 

9.3       Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“That this Council reaffirms our commitment and support for the local Greyhound and 
Equine sports industry; we commend the Government for its continued financial support 
and calls on the Minister to guarantee the level of grants for the life of the government so 
that the organising bodies can continue to invest in the sport locally and the standards of 
aftercare for retired animals. Furthermore, we call on our Oireachtas members to state 
their position on this issue and commit to oppose any moves to reduce the support.” 

Response of Executive:   

If the Motion is passed, the County Secretary will arrange for a copy of the Motion to be 
forwarded to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine, Mr. Charlie McConalogue 
TD for consideration, and will also arrange for the Motion to be forwarded to the six 
Wexford members of the Oireachtas as outlined in the Motion. 

9.4       Cllr. Andrew Bolger 

“Wexford County Council undertake to increase its use of Irish Sign Language (ISL) in public 
communications. Irish Sign Language is the first and/or preferred language of 5,000 Deaf 
people in Ireland and approximately 40,000 people in general will communicate in ISL.  

Response of Executive:   

Wexford County Council currently offers services in ISL at it’s headquarters at Carricklawn, 
Wexford. ISL service will be available in all public libraries by the end of Qtr 1 2022 and in all 
Municipal District Offices by end  of Qtr 4 2022. 

If Motion is passed, Wexford County Council proposes that any new public-facing Council-
made videos will also be made available in ISL. We will also consider the provision of ISL at 
all public events where Council members or Council officials are making an address. 

Page 6 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.12.21 

9.5       Cllr. Tom Forde & Cllr. George Lawlor 

“We ask that this council allow for the representation of all parties and none on the 
Corporate Policy Group.” 

Response of Executive: 

Section 133 of the Local Government Act 2001 (as amended) provides the following: 

“The elected council of each local authority shall form a committee, to be known as the  
corporate policy group and in this section referred to as the ‘policy group’, consisting of: 

(a)        the Cathaoirleach of the local authority who shall chair the policy group, 

(b)     

the chairpersons of the strategic policy committees of the local authority, and 

(c)         where for any period of time, a policy group does not contain a member from a 

municipal district to whom paragraph (a) or (b) relates, a municipal district member 
for each municipal district concerned” 

As only the members identified at (a) (b) and (c) above can be members of the CPG, it is 
not be possible to comply with this Notice of Motion. 

9.6       Cllr. Andrew Bolger and Cllr. L. Kelly 

“We propose that Wexford County Council considers piloting the Space-Finder App or 
similar technology in County Wexford to assist disabled drivers in the identification of 
vacant disabled parking spaces and to provide real-time navigation to the nearest available 
disabled space”. 

Response of Executive: 

Wexford County Council has been in contact with relevant staff of Limerick City and County 
Council (where such a system has been recently installed) with a view to the provision of a 
similar service to users of disabled parking facilities in County Wexford. 

Page 7 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 13.12.21 

Any Other Business 

The Cathaoirleach and members offered the sympathy of the Council to the families of the 
recently deceased: 

•  Ms. Catherine Roche, sister of Maria Farrell, Procurement Office 

•  Mrs. Philomena Doyle, mother of Catherine Culleton, Planning Department 

•  Mr. Joe Ellis, husband of Geraldine Ellis, Planning Department 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Eanair, 2022. 

________________________  
Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
David Minogue,  
County Secretary 

Page 8 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
