County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council held on Monday 12th February 2024 in the Council 
Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Bell 

Pat  
(online) 
Maura  

Donohoe 

Anthony 

Murphy 

Farrell 

Mary 

Murphy 

Bolger 

Andrew  

Forde  

Tom 

O’Rourke 

Breen 

Pip 

Hegarty  

John  

Ó’Súilleabháin 

Browne 

Aidan 

Hynes 

David  
(online) 

Owens 

Byrne 

Cathal 

Kavanagh 

Willie 

Sheehan 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

John 
(online) 
Fionntáin 

Jackser 
(online) 

Michael 

Ger 

Jim 

Kelly 

Kenny 

Kathleen 

Laffan 

Anthony  
(online) 
Diarmuid 
(online) 

Lawlor  

Moore 

Jim 

Leonard 
(online) 
Donal 

Garry 
(online) 
George 

Staples 

Frank  

Sullivan 

Joe 

Walsh 

Oliver 

Whelan 

 Michael 

Carthy 

Codd 

Codd-
Nolan 
Connick 

Devereux 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Lynda Lacey, A/Head of Finance 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Director of Services 

Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services  

Ms Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Apologies:  

Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

•  The family of Martin Ryan, former employee and husband of Anita Ryan,  
      former employee. 
•  The family of Michael Duffin, father of Michelle Duffin, New Ross Municipal District. 
•  The family of Catherine Ryan, mother of John Cunningham-Ryan, Library Services.  
•  The family of Patrick (Paddy) Doran, father of Damien Doran and Dermot Doran, 

Gorey/Kilmuckridge Municipal District. 

•  The family of Fr. John P. Nolan, Parish Priest of Duncannon. 
•  The family of Marjorie Allen, Wexford Town. 
•  The family of Michael (Mike) Hennessy, Barntown. 
•  The family of John Furlong, Clonroche. 

Cllr. J. Moore asked that the sympathy of the Council be extended to the Bruton family on the passing of 
former Taoiseach John Bruton. Cllr. Moore acknowledged what he achieved through his social policy and the 
vital  part  he  played  in  developing  the  framework  for  the  peace  process.  Cllr.  Moore  also  noted  that  the 
government formed by John Bruton had three Ministers from the Wexford constituency. 

Congratulations: 

There were no congratulations recorded. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 

County Council Meeting 8th January, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy and seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved 
to confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 8th January 2024.  

Matters arising: 

Cllr. G. Carthy enquired if there was any update from An Bord Pleanála on the Section 5 application 
submitted by Wexford County Council. Cllr. Carthy also sought clarity in relation to the retention 
application submitted by the developer and queried if the Council can validate a planning 
application for the site when there is no decision on the Section 5 application. 

1.2 

Special Meeting of Wexford County Council (Housing) 8th January, 2024On the proposal of 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy and seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan the Council 
resolved to confirm the Minutes of the County Council (Housing) Meeting on 8th January 
2024.  

Matters arising: 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

Cllr. G. Carthy enquired what the delay is in producing an affordable housing strategy which he 
requested months earlier. 

Cllr. F. Ó’Súilleabháin noted that an affordable housing survey is being conducted and sought 
reassurance that this won’t delay matters. 

2. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1      Consideration of the renewal of the lease of property at Coolcotts Community Centre 

to Clonard Area Development Association Ltd. 

 On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty the Council resolved to renew 
the  lease  of  property  at  Coolcotts  Community  Centre  to  Clonard  Area  Development 
Association Ltd., in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.2      Intention to dispose of property at 7 Old Garden City, Gorey, Co. Wexford 

 On the proposal of Cllr. D. Kenny, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan the Council resolved to dispose 
of property at 7 Old Garden City, Gorey, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in 
the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning and 

Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1      LAC2305 - Proposed residential development of 60 no. units in a mix of 1, 2 and 3 bed 

units, and all ancillary site and enabling works at Killeens, Wexford, Co. Wexford.      

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by 

Cllr. T. Forde, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the construction of 60 no. units in a mix 

of 1, 2 and 3 bed units, and all ancillary site and enabling works at Killeens, Wexford, Co. Wexford.     

in accordance with the terms of LAC2305, as circulated. 

3.2      LAC2313 - Provide a public realm space which will incorporate a playground for younger 

children, seating, a pocket park, lighting and landscaping at Kilmuckridge, Co. Wexford.  

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by 

Cllr. W. Kavanagh, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for a public realm space which will 

incorporate a playground for younger children, seating, a pocket park, lighting and landscaping at 

Kilmuckridge, Co. Wexford in accordance with the terms of LAC2313, as circulated. 

4. 

Wexford County Council Revised DRAFT Climate Action Plan 2024 -2029 

Pursuant to the provisions of the Climate Action and Low Carbon Development (Amendment) Act 
2021 as it amends the principle Act of 2015, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. W. 
Kavanagh, Wexford County Council resolved to adopt the Wexford County Council Climate Action 
Plan 2024 – 2029, having considered the draft plan, the contents of the Chief Executive’s report on 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

submissions received during the period of consultation and the SEA and AA reports and 
determinations, carried out in accordance with the requirements and regulatory provisions of the 
SEA Directive (DIR 2001/42/EC) and Article 6(3) of the EU Habitats Directive (Directive 92/43/EEC). 

Mr. T. Enright thanked Ms. C. Godkin and her team for the huge work which went into drafting the 
Plan. 

5. 

Wexford County Council DRAFT Litter Management Plan 2024 – 2027 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor, the Council resolved to move to 
public consultation on the Draft Litter Management Plan 2024 - 2027, as outlined in the circulated 
memo. 

6. 

Audit Committee Annual Reports 

The Members noted the Audit Committee Annual Reports. 

7. 

Invitation from New Ross’ Sister City of Hartford to attend the 52nd Annual Greater Hartford St. 
Patrick’s Day Parade – 9th March, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Connick, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council resolved to approve to 
send a delegation of two Members to Hartford to attend the 52nd Annual Greater Hartford St. 
Patrick’s Day Parade on 9th March, 2024. 

8. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

On the occasion of Chief Executive Tom Enright’s last Council meeting, Cathaoirleach J. Fleming 
advised the Members that Mr. Enright would make a presentation prior to taking questions on the 
Chief Executive’s report. 

Mr. T. Enright said he wished to acknowledge the work done in collaboration with the Members 
over his ten-year tenure as Chief Executive. Mr. Enright detailed the work done to establish the 
Municipal District offices, the Council’s response to major emergencies whilst acknowledging Billy 
Kinsella’s tragic passing, the Council’s response to Covid, and Cllr. Fergie Kehoe’s tragic passing.  

Mr. Enright acknowledged some of the major social and economic infrastructural projects delivered 
and thanked the Members for their commitment in funding such projects and the Fleadh bid. 
Looking to the future, Mr. Enright said it is important to increase the numbers visiting tourist 
attractions in Wexford, and he emphasised the importance of progressing the advance factory in 
New Ross and the Kilmore Quay Business Park.  

After a sustained round of applause, the Members spoke glowingly about Mr. Enright’s contribution 
to Wexford and the legacy he leaves behind. Numerous contributors spoke of his vision, integrity, 
ambition, approachability, honesty, courtesy, empathy, and respect. The following Members paid 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

tribute to Mr. Enright’s tenure: Pip Breen, George Lawlor, Davy Hynes, Michael Whelan, John 
Hegarty, Michael Sheehan, Willie Kavanagh, Ger Carthy, Fionntáin Ó’Súilleabháin, Barbara Anne 
Murphy, Joe Sullivan, Jackser Owens, Jim Codd, Mary Farrell, Oliver Walsh, Kathleen Codd Nolan, 
Anthony Connick, Garry Laffan, Andrew Bolger, Aidan Browne, Frank Staples, Cathal Byrne, Donal 
Kenny, Bridín Murphy, and John Fleming. 

Mr. E. Hore spoke on behalf of the Management Team and acknowledged the huge contribution 
made by Mr. T. Enright to County Wexford during his tenure and spoke of the enduring legacy he 
leaves behind. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of queries 
from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  How is the Council going to deal with the disproportionate distribution of migrants in Wexford? 

Request that a letter be sent to the Minister addressing the disproportionate distribution. 

•  Congratulations to LEO on creating the second highest number of jobs in the Country. 

•  Are there many public lights left to be converted to LED? 

•  Request for update on master plan of Killeens land. 

•  Status of discussions with SETU, FAI, GAA and Department of Education in relation to master 

planning. 

•  Can a representative body for disabilities be added as a notifiable body for the purpose of 

planning applications?  

•  It was noted that rates bills have been altered to remove the notification that you can pay your 

bill at the post office. It was agreed that future bills will include the post office as a payment 

facility. 

•  Update on Trinity Wharf progress. 

•  Disbelief expressed that north Wexford is getting only €50,000 out of €3.75m active travel 

funding.  

•  What applications for active travel funding were made for north Wexford? 

•  Request that the unsuccessful applications for north Wexford be analysed to establish why they 

didn’t receive funding. 

•  Does Wexford County Council have a role in identifying accommodation centres? 

•  Frustration expressed in relation to SETU’s delay in providing information for master planning. 

•  Request for bus stops in Bunclody to be funded through active travel. 

•  When will the register of electors be available? 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

•  What is the status of the 65-unit development in Bunclody? 

•  Who will house Ukranians after 90-day period has elapsed? 

•  How many litter fines are paid in full, how many partially paid, and how many stopped? 

•  Number of vacancies in the Fire Service? 

•  Does the word of the Members get taken into consideration when it comes to housing 

allocations? 

•  When is a decision made to allocate on the basis of a special category? 

•  Is time back on the list assessed on a case-by-case basis? 

•  Request for realistic timeframe for completion of works on Fisher’s Row. 

•  Concern expressed in relation to unofficial road closures into estates around Wexford Park on 

match days and Wexford County Council’s role in relation to this. 

•  Has there been an update in relation to the Mica/Pyrite redress scheme? 

•  Timeline for Enniscorthy Town Plan? 

•  Commencement of works on the N80 welcomed but request for larger speed signs. 

•  Timeline for conclusion of advance factory negotiations and commencement of work? 

•  Request for upgrade of New Ross library. 

•  Request for Council to contact the owners of the albatross site to explore the possibility of 

acquiring land for sports campus use. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Council resolved to 
suspend standing orders to allow the meeting to continue past 5.30pm. 

•  Timeline for demolition of Murphy Floods. 
•  Is there an option to look at one footpath project per district under active travel funding? 
•  Can an e-mail notification be incorporated into the CBL system notifying applicants if they have 

been unsuccessful? 

Cllr.’s G. Carthy and K.C. Nolan left the meeting at this point. 

•  Issues raised in relation to Ballytegan road. 
•  Dissatisfaction raised over delays in payment of Acres scheme, the importation of white thorn 

for the Acres scheme rather than local supply, and the change in the VAT rate for farm 
equipment. 

•  Six streetlights in Ballymitty need to be illuminated. 
•  Timeline for development of housing site in Taghmon? 
•  Concerns raised over removal of barrier at St. Aidan’s school. 
•  Request that pedestrian crossings be provided at schools. 

 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

Timeline for N11/N25 road project? 

•  Request that National Broadband Plan Co-ordinator attend a Council meeting. 
• 
•  Request that polling stations be accessible. 
•  Request for updated contact details for staff and their departments. 
•  Request for dates and times for vacant homes roadshow. 
•  Concern over length of time taken to draw down Croí Conaithe grants. 
•  What is the average time between final inspection and Croí Conaithe grant being paid? 
•  Date for appointment of Heritage Officer? 

9. 

Minutes of CPG Meeting 6th February, 2024 

9.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 6th February, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Council resolved to adopt 
the minutes of the CPG meeting of 6th February, 2024. 

10.  Minutes for Noting 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

10.1    New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 13th December, 2023   

10.2    Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 13th December, 2023   

10.3    Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 16th December, 2023   

10.4    Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 18th December, 2023   

10.5    Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 19th December, 2023   

10.6    Protocol Committee Meeting  -  11th April, 2023 

10.7    Planning & Building Control SPC 12th October, 2023 

The members noted the above minutes. 

11.  

Correspondence and Communications 

11.1    Letters from Offaly County Council re: motions 20th December, 2023 & 16th January, 2024 
11.2    Letter from Carlow County Council re: motion dated 22nd January, 2024 
11.3    Letter from Department of Social Protection re motion dated 24th January, 2024 
11.4    Letter from Sligo County Council re motion dated 30th January, 2024 

The members noted the above correspondence. 

12.  

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  

12.1    List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, the Council approved 
attendance for the following conferences and training: 

Training 
25th January – Local Authority Energy and Climate Action Information Seminar – Seven Oaks Hotel, 
Carlow. 

25th January – AILG Module 1 Training “Elected Members Briefing: Annual Declarations, Donations, 
Code of Conduct, and Local Representation Allowance update” – The Fairways Hotel, Dundalk (out 
of region). 

27th January – AILG Module 1 Training “Elected Members Briefing: Annual Declarations, Donations, 
Code of Conduct, and Local Representation Allowance update” – Greenhills Conference & Leisure 
Centre, Limerick (Southern region). 

7th- 8th February – Association of Irish Regional Annual Training Seminar 2024 “Building capacity to 
address the challenges of a changing Ireland – Fitzgerald’s Woodlands Hotel, Limerick. €160 

Conferences 
23rd – 25th February – Celtic Conferences – “The First Home Scheme – Helping Home Owners Get 
Onto The Property Ladder” – Carlingford, Co. Louth. €130 

1st – 3rd March – Celtic Conferences – “A Practical Guide to Personal taxation in Ireland” – 
Clonakilty, Co. Cork. €130. 

12.2    Councillor’s Conference Reports: 

•  Cllr. J. Sullivan – The Finance Act 2023, Carlingford, Co. Louth. 

The members noted the above report, as circulated. 

13. 

Notices of Motion  

The notices of motion were deferred until the March meeting. 

14. 

Any Other Business. 

Mr. M. Drea informed the meeting that Cllr. G. Lawlor had expressed an interest in filling the 
vacancy on the Local Traveller Accommodation Consultative Committee (LTACC) created by Cllr. L. 
Kelly’s resignation. On the proposal of Cllr. M. Bell, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, Cllr. G. Lawlor 
was appointed to the LTACC. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daingithe ar an             

lá de Márta, 2024. 

County Council Meeting 12.02.24 

________________________  

________________________ 

Cllr. John Fleming 

Cathaoirleach  

Michael Drea,  

County Secretary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
