County Council Meeting 11.01.21 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 11 January, 2021 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Ger Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MOORE 

JIM 

BELL 

MAURA 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

MURPHY 

BARBARA-
ANNE 

BOLGER 

ANDREW 

FORDE 

TOM 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 

BYRNE 

CODD 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

JIM 

KELLY 

LEONARD  SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

KENNY 

DONAL 

STAPLES 

 FRANK 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WALSH 

OLIVER 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MCDONALD  LISA 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive  
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 

Apologies: 

Cllr. J. O’Rourke 

Page 1 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.01.21 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Council expressed sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

o  Mrs. Nell Aspell, Terrarath 
o  The Katus, Byrne and Murphy Families, New Ross 
o  Mr. Seamus Swan, Fishers Row, Wexford 
o  Mrs. Mary Doyle, Ballyhogue 
o  Mr. Jimmy O’Neill, Ballyhogue 
o  The Very Reverend Noel Canon Hartley, Kilmuckridge and New Ross 
o  Mr. Barry O’Rourke, Enniscorthy 
o  Mr.Michael Jordan, Boolavogue 
o  Mr. Michael Devereux, Lr. Bride St, Wexford 
o  Mrs. Maire O’Shea, New Ross 
o  Mr. Stephen Flood, Maudlintown, Wexford 
o  Sr. Anne Harpur, Blackwater and Duncormick 
o  Ms. Anne (Nan) Fanning, Coolgreaney, Gorey 
o  Mr. Liam Fanning, Ballytegan Road, Gorey 

Votes of Congratulations 

The Council congratulated the following: 

o  Mr. James Kehoe, from the Boley Tug-of-War Club, on being nominated as “one of 

the  

greatest athletes of all time” 

o  Wexford  Members  of  the  Oireachtas  for  their  efforts  in  helping  to  secure 

improvements to  

services at Rosslare Europort 

o  Jockey Jonathan Moore, Adamstown, following his recent Grade 1 success 
o  Mr. Will Doyle, following his appointment at FAI High Performance Regional Officer 
o  Mr.  Festy  Ebosele,  former  Moyne  Rangers  soccer  player,  following  his  debut  for 

Derby County 

o  All villages in County Wexford who were recently awarded funding in the 2020/21 

Town Renewal Scheme 

o  The Wexford Families taking part in Ireland’s Fittest Family competition 
o  Mrs.  Maggie  Sullivan,  mother  of  Cllr.  Joe  Sullivan,  on  the  occasion  of  her  100th 

Birthday 

o  The many support groups throughout County Wexford who are continuing to offer 

services despite the difficulties presented by the Covid-19 pandemic 

o  Ms. Madison Roche, Winner, Wexfactor Contest 

Page 2 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.01.21 

1.   

Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1. 

County Council Meeting – 14 December, 2020 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Moore and agreed  
unanimously the Council resolved to adopt the above Minutes. 

Matters Arising: 

Amendments: 

Standing Orders 

Budget 2021 

Covid-19 

Cllr.  Kathleen  Codd-Nolan  asked  that  Item  13.4  of  the 
Minutes  be  amended  to  reflect  that  she  had  voted  for  the 
amended proposal. 

It was agreed that existing arrangements as set out in  
Standing Orders for the holding of remote or partially remote 
meetings  of  the  Council  will  continue  to  apply  until  30  June 
2021 and will be reviewed by the elected members after that 
date.  

The decision to hold further meetings of the Council remotely 
will be  guided by the level of Covid-19 restriction in place at 
the time of the meeting. 

In the meantime, the Protocol Committee together with  
those Councillors who represent the Council on LAMA and  
AILG  will  develop  draft  Standing  Orders  to  further  regulate 
remote / partially remote meetings of the Council 

A/DoS Ms. Carolyne Godkin responded to Cllr. Sheehan  
regarding funding by Wexford County Council to Ozanam  
House 

Chief Executive Tom Enright addressed the members and  
highlighted the efforts of the Council to support the fight  
against Covid-19. The  Chief  Executive  also  advised  that  the 
Council would be happy to assist the HSE in the identification 
of venues suited to the rollout  of the Covid 19 vaccination  
programme 

In response to a query from Cllr. Owens, Mr. Enright advised 
that a suitable premises was available as a Covid 19 test  
center in Enniscorthy, but as the HSE is satisfied that current 
test demand can be managed using the Wexford test center, 
the HSE has therefore not sought use of an Enniscorthy  
facility. 

Page 3 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.01.21 

It was agreed that the expanded CPG Covid-19 Committee  
would  meet to allow the Members to be updated  regarding 
the on-going Covid -19 situation 

Legal Fees 

Cllr. J. Fleming sought information regarding cost of  
conveyancing as currently charged by the Council’s legal  
advisors. The A/DoS Housing  agreed to revert to the  
Councillor on this matter. 

2.   

Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1  

Proposed disposal of land at St. Ibar’s Villas, Ballyboggan Lower, Castlebridge, Co. 
Wexford 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty the Council  resolved 
that the proposed disposal should be carried out in accordance with the Notice  
as circulated. 

3.  

Proposed intention to lease land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act, 2001: 

3.1  

Proposed intention to lease land at Baile Eoghan, Gorey, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan seconded by Cllr.  P. Breen the Council resolved 
that the proposed lease should be carried out in accordance with the Notice as  
circulated. 

4. 

Audit Committee Reports 

4.1 

Audit Committee commentary on the contents of the 2019 Accounts and audit  
findings in accordance with the Local Government Act 2001 as amended 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Members  
noted the report and commentary of the Committee. 

4.2 

Overview of Audit Committee work programme completed during 2020 in 
accordance with section 15 of the Local Government (Audit Committee) 
Regulations 2014 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Members  
noted the details of the completed work programme as circulated 

4.3 

Audit Committee’s proposed work programme for 2021 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Members  
noted and approved the proposed work programme as circulated. 

Page 4 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.01.21 

5.  

Return of Annual Declaration - Public Register of Interests (Ethics Register) 

The County Secretary advised the Members of the  imposed  on  each  member  under 
section 171 of the Act to prepare and furnish an annual declaration to the Ethics Registrar 
(County  Secretary).  He  advised  the  necessary  paperwork  would  be  emailed  to  each 
member in the coming days. 

6.  

Chief Executive’s Report 

The  Chief  Executive  presented  the  Report  and  together  with  the  members  of  the 
Management Team responded to a range of queries from the Members,   including 
the 
following: 

Improvements to New Ross Courthouse 

  Rosslare Harbour Access Road 
  Winter Maintenance (Gritting/ Salting) Programme 
  Proposals for upgrade of Old Dublin Road, Enniscorthy 
  Oilgate to Rosslare Road Improvement Scheme 
 
  Enforcement of Parking Charges 
  Litter Management / Spring Clean Initiative 
  Templeshannon Enhancement Capital Scheme 
  Gorey Town Park Capital Scheme 
  Housing Adaption Works 
  Skatepark at Min Ryan Park 
  Provision of Covid Test Centre in Enniscorthy 
  Provision of broadband in rural areas 
  Town & Village Scheme 2021 
  Courtown Leisure Centre 
  Gorey Market House 

7.  

List of Councillors' Conferences and Training 

7.1 

15/22/29 January Effective Social Media (Lunchtime) Series: 15, 22 & 29 January  
2021 (LGIU) £168 

The Members noted the above course and on the proposal of Cllr Lawlor, seconded 
by Cllr. Breen approved it for attendance. 

8. 

Protocol Meeting Date 

It was suggested that a meeting of the Protocol Committee would take place on the same 
day as the next meeting of the Council i.e. Monday 8 February 2021 – County Secretary to 
arrange with the Cathaoirleach and confirm. 

Page 5 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.01.21 

9.  

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting) 

9.1   New Ross Municipal District Meeting 11.11.2020 

9.2  

Borough District of Wexford Meeting 16.11.2020 

9.3  

Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting 17.11.2020 

9.4  

Rosslare Municipal District Meeting 16.11.2020 

9.5  

Transportation and Water Services SPC 22nd June, 2020 

The Members noted the Minutes of the above meetings 

10.  

Correspondence and Communications 

10.1 

Letter from Simon Coveney TD, Minister for Defence and Minister for Foreign  
Affairs dated 10th December, 2020. 

10.2 

Email from Department of Social Protection dated 22nd December, 2020 

The Members noted receipt of the above correspondence 

11.   Notices of Motion 

11.1   Cllr. Davy Hynes 

“That this council calls on the Minister for Health to enact it’s own legislation The 
Public Health (Alcohol) Act 2018 contains plans for MUP to be introduced in  
Ireland, but the section of the Act that sets out the law on MUP has not been  
commenced. The increase of alcohol sale by at least 30% has played a part in the  
increase in infections. This move should also be followed up by a public awareness 
campaign to educate the public on the misuse of alcohol and the subsequent lack of 
awareness of measures such as social distancing etc. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. Forde and agreed. 

12.  

Any Other Business  

The  Council  agreed  to  write  to  the  Department  of  an  Taoiseach  to  express  its  
disappointment  at  the  manner 
in  which  the  Final  Report  of  the  Commission  of 
Investigation   into  Mother  and  Baby  Homes  was  leaked  to  media.  Cllr.  Bridín  Murphy 
asked that she be noted as abstaining from this resolution. 

Page 6 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.01.21 

It was agreed that an update on the Council’s efforts to support a Technological University 
for the South East will be presented to the February 2021 monthly meeting of the Council  

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an           lá de  Feabhra, 2021. 

________________________  
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
County Secretary 

Page 7 of 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
