County Council Meeting 09.12.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held Monday 9th December 2024 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.00pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Rourke 

John 

Boland 

Nicky 

Kehoe 

Pat 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kelly 

Byrne 

Cathal 

Kenny 

Leonard 
(Online) 
Donal 

Staples 

Staples 

Frank  

Robbie 

Carthy 

Codd 

Ger 

Jim 

Laffan 

Garry 

Sullivan 

Joe 

McDonald 

Darragh 

Walsh 

Catherine 
Biddy (Online) 
 Oliver 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Walsh 

John 

Mary 

John 

Tom 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 
(Online) 
Marty 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Dwyer 

Farrell 

Fleming 

Forde  

Officials: 

Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. A.M. Colfer, A/Administrative Officer 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: Cllr. Jackser Owens, Cllr. Raymond Shannon, Mr. S. Howell, A/Director of Services, Ms. L. 
Lacey, Director of Finance 

Page 1 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.12.24 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of Mary Barron, sister of Cllr. John Fleming. 
•  The family of Alice Maguire, mother of Hugh Maguire, Environment Section   
•  The family of Mr. Thomas Byrne - Light Truck Driver, New Ross Area Roads. 

Cathaoirleach Cllr. P. Breen extended sympathy to the family of eight-year-old Malika Noor Al 
Katib who was fatally stabbed in New Ross. As a mark of respect, the Council observed a minute’s 
silence. 
Cllr. M. Sheehan joined the Cathaoirleach in expressing sympathy and commended the local 
community for their response to the harrowing incident, and the first responders who assisted 
Malika and her mother.  

Congratulations: 

Cllr. J. Fleming congratulated Rathnure on winning the Intermediate hurling Leinster Final. 
Cllr.’s J. Codd, P. Kavanagh, M. Sheehan, P. Breen, and C. Byrne congratulated the seven candidates 
who were elected in the Wicklow Wexford and Wexford constituencies and offered commiserations 
to those who were unsuccessful.  
Cllr.’s M. Sheehan, O. Walsh and P. Breen commended former deputies Brendan Howlin and Paul 
Kehoe for their service. 
Cllr. M. Sheehan commended Cllr. B. Murphy for the way she dealt with on-line abuse which she 
had received. 
The Members commended the staff of Wexford County Council for their work in dealing with the 
aftermath  of  Storm  Darragh,  however,  frustration  was  expressed  at  the  out  of  hours  call  centre 
service  and  delays  experienced.  Mr.  E.  Hore  commended  the  Council  staff  for  their  work  in 
responding to storm Darragh. 

1. 

Presentation - Launch of the 2024 - 2029 Local Economic & Community Plan  

Ms. Dymphna O’Connor presented the Local Economic and Community Plan (LECP) to the 
Members. Ms. O’Connor outlined the purpose of the LECP is to set out for a six-year period, 
the  objectives  and  actions  required  to  promote  and  support  the  economic  and  local 
community development of the county.  
Ms. O’Connor advised that it’s a statutory document which all Local Authorities are required 
to develop and future funding for Economic and Community projects will be linked back to 
the  LECP.  Ms.  O’Connor  outlined  that  the  framework  document  sets  out  the  ambition, 
approach,  policy  framework,  socio-economic  profile,  consultation  findings,  SCOT  analysis 
followed by 6 High Level Goals, objectives and actions.  
Ms. O’Connor thanked the advisory committee comprised of: 

•  Cllr Aidan Browne, Chair of the LCDC, 
•  Former Cllr. Michael Whelan, who was chair of the Economic and Enterprise SPC from 

2018 to mid-2024, 

•  Cllr. Joe Sullivan, former chair of the Housing and Community SPC, 
•  Directors of Service Carolyne Godkin and Liz Hore, 

Page 2 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  Former Community staff members Alice O’Gorman and Claude Clancy and project co-

County Council Meeting 09.12.24 

ordinator Ronan Griffin. 

2. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

2.1 

County 2.1 County Council Meeting 11th November, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 11th November, 2024. 

Matters Arising: 
Cllr. R. Staples asked for clarity if a vote was taken at the November Council meeting in 
relation to the establishment of a mental health sub-committee. Cllr. Staples said a 
Councillor had posted on social media that the Members had voted against it when his 
recollection was that no such vote had taken place. Mr. M. Drea clarified that no vote was 
taken on the matter at the November meeting. 
Cllr.’s C. Walsh, D. McDonald, F. Staples, B. Murphy and P. Kavanagh speaking on behalf of 
Cllr. R. Shannon who wasn’t present, all expressed their disgust at the social media post in 
relation to the establishment of a mental health sub-committee.  
Responding to the criticism Cllr. A.R. O’Brien outlined that a motion was unanimously 
passed at the October meeting and some Members subsequently spoke against the 
motion. 
Cllr. T. Forde said he will be establishing a mental health committee and will be contacting 
all Members to see if they wish to be part of it. Mr. E. Taaffe asked that Cllr. Forde revert 
with the terms of reference and membership of the committee. 
Cllr. F. Staples also took issue with what he perceived to be a misleading social media post 
in relation to the LPT. Cllr. T. Forde said the post was in no way mis-leading, adding that it 
was carefully worded to ensure it was accurate. 

2.2  

Statutory Budget Meeting 25th November, 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the Statutory Budget Meeting on 25th November, 2024. 

3.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1 Intention to dispose of property at 8 Eire Street, Gorey, Co. Wexford 
On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. D. McDonald the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at 8 Eire Street, Gorey, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set 
out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3.2 Intention to lease former Bank Of Ireland premises at St. Martin's Road, Rosslare 
Harbour, Co Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved to 
lease the former Bank Of Ireland premises at St. Martin's Road, Rosslare Harbour, Co 
Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3.3 Dispose of property Main Street, Fethard On Sea, Co. Wexford. 

Page 3 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.12.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at Main Street, Fethard On Sea, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

4.   Wexford County Development Plan 2022 - 2028 - Core Strategy Monitoring Report for 

Year 2 - For Noting  

The Council noted the contents of the Wexford County Development Plan 2022 - 2028 - 
Core Strategy Monitoring Report for Year 2.  
Cllr. M. Sheehan sought an update on the Local Area Plans for Enniscorthy and New Ross. 
Ms. L. Hore advised that work has commenced on the Local Area Plan for Enniscorthy. Ms. 
Hore outlined that new legislation is yet to be enacted but when it is, a Local Area Plan will 
not be required for a town of New Ross’ scale. 

5. 

Draft Traveller Accommodation Programme 2025 - 2029 - For Adoption 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde, the Council resolved to 
adopt the Draft Traveller Accommodation Programme 2025 – 2029. 

Cllr. T. Forde sought an update on the accommodation plans for the traveller families in 
Park for the next Municipal District meeting. 

6. 

Draft Corporate Plan 2025 – 2029 – For Adoption 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, the Council resolved to 
adopt the draft Corporate Plan 2025 – 2029. 

7. 

Draft Strategic Policy Committee Scheme 2024 - 2029 - For Adoption 

Cllr. L. McDonald proposed the adoption of the draft Strategic Policy Committee Scheme 
2024 - 2029 subject to the following amendments: 

•  Section 5.1 – The Housing and Community SPC to be split into two SPC’s, (1) 

Housing and (2) Community and Rural Affairs. 

•  Fire and emergency move to the Transportation and Water Services SPC. 

Cllr. O. Walsh seconded the proposal, and the Council resolved to adopt the amended 
Strategic Policy Committee Scheme 2024 – 2029. 

Cllr. O. Walsh proposed Cllr. D. McDonald as Chair of the newly formed Community and 
Rural Affairs SPC, seconded by Cllr. John Fleming, and agreed by all. 

8. 

NOAC Local Authority Performance Indicator Report 2023 - Analysis of Wexford County 
Council Performance 

The Council noted the contents of the NOAC Local Authority Performance Indicator Report 
2023 - Analysis of Wexford County Council Performance. 

Page 4 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.12.24 

9. 

Replacement of Cllr. Frank Staples on Healthy County Committee 

On the proposal of Cllr. D. McDonald, seconded by Cllr. F. Staples, the Council resolved to 
appoint Cllr. B. Murphy as Cllr. F. Staples replacement on the Healthy County Committee. 

10. 

Chief Executives Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  The new road signs at Ballycarney junction were welcomed and queried if they will be 

permanent. 

•  When will the video audit at Clohamon be available? 
•  The 2023 EPA Report outlined that six local authorities, one of which was Wexford 
failed to achieve the required "Strong or Excellent" score in 10 or more of the 20 
national environmental enforcement priority areas. Can we improve on this? 

•  Request for progress report on the M11. 
•  Request that works be carried out to Starvehall Cross. 
•  The coastal erosion defence works undertaken at Seaview, Kilmore were welcomed. 
•  Disappointment expressed at the projected timeline of 2029 for the Rosslare coastal 

erosion defence works. 

•  Query if Wexford County Council is proactively removing deceased persons from the 

Register of Electors. 

•  Request that adverse weather beds be provided on a more permanent basis. 
•  Timeline for dredging works on Crescent Quay. 
•  Request for additional festival funding for Enniscorthy and a second annual festival on 

foot of the nighttime economy report. 

•  Status of safe route to schools works for Enniscorthy Community College, Ballaghkeene 

NS, Kiltealy NS and St. Patrick’s NS Ballyroebuck. 

•  Request to see the proposed works for Leeches bend and Tominearly before they go to 

tender. 

•  Clarification sought in relation to a case where a lady was told Wexford County Council 

doesn’t offer grants for window and door upgrades. 

•  Request that Cllr. A.R. O’Brien’s address details be amended on the Council’s website. 
•  Request that public facilities such as halls be used as polling stations rather than 

schools. Who has the final decision on polling station selection? 

•  Request for signage for illegal dumping blackspots. 
•  Request for erection of slow down, children at play signs. 
•  Observation that a lot of the green bollards at junctions are dirty and need to be 

cleaned. 

•  Update on Glenville Road and Larkin’s Cross works. 
•  Update on IDA advance factory in Enniscorthy. 
•  Update on New Ross advance factory. 
•  Query if funding for additional bus stops has been received? 
•  View expressed that the law requiring the candidate’s address to be included on the 

ballot paper should be changed. 

Page 5 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.12.24 

•  Request that the CBL system be amended so that applicants are notified if they aren’t 

getting an offer of a property. 

•  Update on library works in New Ross. 
•  Request that works be carried out to the Mill O’Rags as water is damaging the road. 
•  Timeline for Castlebridge cycle lane? 
•  Timeline for Uisce Éireann works at Ardcolm Drive? 
•  Request that resident’s association’s funding be increased to allow overgrown or 

• 

dangerous trees to be cut. 
In areas of regular flooding can rivers be dammed upstream from the flooding black 
spots. 

•  Update for ongoing plan for Oyster Lane Plaza. 
•  Request that the Chief Executive or Director of Service for Economic attend the next 

New Ross Municipal District meeting. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

Cllr.’s G. Carthy, J. Dwyer, M. Farrell, and B. Murphy left the meeting at this point. 

11.  Minutes of CPG 

11.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 2nd December, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. P. Barden, seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the CPG Meeting on 2nd December, 2024. 

12.  Minutes of Meetings (for Noting): 

12.1 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 15th October,2024 
12.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 16th October, 2024 
12.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 21st October, 2024 
12.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 22nd October, 2024 
12.5 Rosslare Municipal District – 22nd July, 2024, 18th September, 2024, 16th October, 
2024. 
12.6 Special Rosslare Municipal District Meeting 23rd October, 2024. 
12.7 Borough District of Wexford Protocol Committee Meeting 16th September, 2024 

 The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

13. 

Correspondence and Communications 

13.1 Letter from Alan Dillon, Minister of State for Planning and Local Government re: 
motion dated 6th November, 2024. 
13.2 Letter from Waterford City & County Council re: motion dated 7th November, 2024 
13.3 Email from Private Secretary to the Minister of Finance re: motion dated 
14th November, 2024. 
13.4 Letter from Kerry County Council re: motion dated 13th November, 2024. 
13.5 Letter from Leitrim County Council – Carrick-on-Shannon Municipal District dated 
28th November, 2024 

Page 6 of 8 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Members noted the correspondence, as circulated. 

14. 

Councillor's Conferences and Training 

County Council Meeting 09.12.24 

14.1 

List of Conferences / Training - List Attached 
13th – 15th December 2024 - Celtic Conferences – “Health Services Entitlements”, 
Clonakilty, Co. Cork. Conference Fee €130 

10th – 12th January 2025 - Celtic Conferences – “The Finance Act”, Carlingford, Co. 
Louth. Conference Fee €130. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved 
to approve attendance at the above conferences. 

14.2   Councillors Conference Report 

•  Report on European Forum at Abbaye aux Dames in Caen – 30th  and 

31st October, 2024 

•  Report on Remembrance Event to mark the sinking of the SS St. Patrick – 

Saturday 9th  November 2024  

The Members noted the reports. 

15. 

Notices of Motion 

15.1 Cllr. AoifeRose O'Brien 
"To ask this council to write to the incoming Government requesting an increase in funding 
for Wexford roads, acknowledging that Wexford County Council is allocated the least 
funding nationally per kilometre of road; acknowledging the increased need for such 
funding." 

Cllr. A.R. O’Brien proposed the motion. Cllr. G. Laffan seconded the motion subject to the 
following amendment - “is allocated the least funding” to be replaced with “is amongst the 
worst funded”. This was agreed by all and carried. 

The agreed motion is as follows: 
"To ask this council to write to the incoming Government requesting an increase in funding 
for Wexford roads, acknowledging that Wexford County Council is amongst the worst 
funded nationally per kilometre of road; acknowledging the increased need for such 
funding." 

15.2 Cllr. AoifeRose O'Brien and Cllr. Tom Forde 
"We call on the incoming Minister for Housing to ensure that applicants for social housing 
supports are not rejected based on the amount of space in the home of their parent(s). We 
believe that an adult has their own need for housing, independent of their parent(s) and 
we ask that Wexford County Council support this through their housing scheme." 

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, and agreed by all, the 
motion was carried.  

Page 7 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.12.24 

Cllr. J. Sullivan indicated that he believes there is merit in the motion but felt it should be 
referred to the Housing SPC as it needs to be teased out. Cllr. A.R. O’Brien agreed for it to 
be referred to the Housing SPC as long as it is on its first agenda. 

15.3 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"This Council calls on the incoming government to recognise and vindicate the right of all 
persons to adequate housing and to set a date for a referendum on the right to housing." 

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne, and agreed by all, the motion 
was carried.  

16. 

Any Other Business 

Cllr. M. Sheehan proposed that Wexford County Council write to David McRedmond, CEO 
of An Post and invite him to attend a meeting regarding the proposed changes for New 
Ross post office and to discuss the issue of contracts which are up for renewal. This was 
seconded by Cllr. P. Barden. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Eanáir, 2025. 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 8 of 8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
