County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council held on Monday 8th January 2024 in the Council Chamber 
at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Farrell 

Bell 

Maura  

Forde  

Mary 
(online) 
Tom 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Bolger 

Andrew  

Hegarty  

John  

O’Rourke 

Breen 

Pip 

Hynes 

David  

Ó’Súilleabháin 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

John 
(online) 
Fionntáin 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kavanagh 

Willie 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Byrne 

Cathal 

Kelly 

Leonard 

Staples 

Frank  

Kenny 

Donal 

Sullivan 

Joe 

Laffan 

Garry 

Walsh 

Lawlor  

George 

Whelan 

Oliver 
(online) 
 Michael 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Moore 

Jim 

Ger 

Jim 

Anthony  
(online) 
Diarmuid 
(online) 
Anthony 
(online) 

Carthy 

Codd 

Connick 

Devereux 

Donohoe 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Lynda Lacey, A/Head of Finance 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Director of Services 

Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services  

Ms Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Apologies:  

Cllr. Kathleen Codd Nolan 

Cllr. Jackser Owens 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to:  

•  The family of James Furlong, father of Eoin Furlong, New Ross Municipal District.  
•  The family of Mary Berry, Rowesmount, Drinagh, Co. Wexford. 
•  The family of Ray Bates, Kilmore Quay, Wexford. 

At the request of Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by Cathaoirleach J. Fleming, those present observed a minute’s 
silence to mark the loss of all those killed in conflicts around the world. 

Congratulations: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the congratulations of the Council to: 

•  Alice Doyle on her election as IFA Vice President. 
•  The Wexford football team on a great start to their season. 
•  All those involved in the New Years Day arrow ceremony at Hook Head.  
•  Michael Brazzil, Rob Nolan and Joe Goff for assistance provided to the Lambert family when their 

property was hit by a tornado. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1  County Council Meeting 11th December, 2023 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy and seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 11th December 2023.  

Matters arising: 

There were no matters arising. 

2. 

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1      Intention to dispose of land at Rathnure, Co Wexford.  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved to dispose of 
land at Rathnure, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.2      Intention to lease land at Rathnure, Co. Wexford. 

 On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved to lease land 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

at Rathnure, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.3      Intention to dispose of property at Ballinclare, Leskinfere, Gorey, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the Council resolved to dispose of a 
property at Ballinclare, Leskinfere, Gorey, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the 
S.183 Notice as circulated.  

3. 

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the Planning and 

Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1  

LAC2311 - Construction of 5 no. dwellings, consisting of 3 no. 3 bed 2 storey 

terrace   houses & 2 no. 2 bed bungalows and associated site works. This is an amended 

proposal from PLAC 2124 which consisted of 3 no. 3 bed 2 storey houses, 1 no. 3 bed 

bungalow and 1 no. 2 bed bungalow at Doire Moling, Ballyedmond, Monamolin, Co. 

Wexford. 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by 

Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the construction of 5 no. dwellings, 

consisting of 3 no. 3 bed 2 storey terrace houses & 2 no. 2 bed bungalows and associated site works 

at Doire Moling, Ballyedmond, Monamolin, Co. Wexford in accordance with the terms of LAC2311, 

as circulated. 

4. 

Pre-Draft Consultation Report on Wexford Town Local Area Plan 2024 

The Members noted the Pre-Draft Consultation Report on the Wexford Town Local Area Plan 2024. 

5. 

Approval for Delegation to travel to China in 2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan, the Council resolved to send a 

delegation to Jiangxi Province in 2024, as outlined in the circulated memo. 

6. 

Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of queries 

from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Status of CCTV applications for Wexford, New Ross, and Enniscorthy. 

•  Update on funding for Forth Mountain project. 

•  Update on tenders for Oyster Lane facility. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

•  Who will run the Oyster Lane facility? 

• 

Is the property referred to as Unity Square, the old Garda station in Wexford? 

•  Will Unity Square only be used to accommodate displaced Ukranians? 

•  Request for presentation in the future on the role of the integration team. 

•  Update on Fleadh Cheoil na hÉireann preparations. 

•  Congratulations to the Planning Department on their pre-planning day – Is there any plans 

to host another day? 

•  How many new tenants have moved into Senan House? 

•  Start date for resurfacing of N80? 

• 

• 

• 

Is there an increase in numbers applying to join the Fire Service? 

Is the average waiting time for a pre-planning meeting 79 days? 

Is Wexford County Council winning enforcement cases it is taking? 

•  Will the Disability Inclusion Strategy come before the Members? 

• 

• 

Is the windows and doors scheme open to the entire county?  

Is there an issue drawing down funding from the Community Recognition Fund? 

•  Can Duncannon apply for a blue flag? 

•  What beaches have Wexford County Council applied for blue flags for? 

•  Timeline for demolition of Murphy Floods? 

•  Has guidance for use of CCTV for litter enforcement issued yet? 

•  Update on request for a nighttime economy officer and request for presentation to 

Enniscorthy MD. 

Cllr. L. McDonald left the meeting at this point. 

•  Frustration expressed at inaction in relation to flooding of the Ahare river. 

•  Update on status of enforcement action in relation to odour issue at Ballyminaun. 

•  How closely will Local Authority Integration Team work with local communities when it 

becomes apparent an accommodation centre will be set up? 

•  Request that the Council intervene in relation to issues with getting repairs carried out in 

Tuath houses. 

•  Clarification and guarantee sought that any tenant who is honouring a deal to address their 

rent arrears will be eligible for the windows and doors programme. 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

•  Update on Gorey Market House. 

•  Update on request for additional funding for roads in County Wexford. 

•  Request that the Council consider linking Fleadh Cheoil na hÉireann in with some cultural 

events on St. Patricks Day. 

•  Clarification sought as to whether the Council can use mobile cameras for prosecution of 

littering offences. 

•  Timeline for action once derelict site notices go up on properties. 

•  Request that the lighting times for the skate park in Min Ryan Park be adjusted. 

•  Director for Roads commended for his honesty in relation to roads funding requirements. 

•  Council thanked for provision of flood gates in Bridgetown. Request that floodgates be 

provided in Duncormick. 

•  Request that pedestrian crossings be provided to access playgrounds. 

•  What action has been taken to address flooding on Taghmon to Larkin’s Cross road? 

•  Request that signage issues be addressed on Taghmon to Larkin’s Cross road. 

•  Changes to Tenant Purchase Scheme welcomed where only one tenant now needs to be a 

tenant for 10 years and a reduction in the income threshold. 

•  Have RRDF projects been selected yet? 

•  What are the consequences for towns without a LAP – what retail strategy applies? 

•  Is progress being made on active travel project for New Ross? 

•  Will consultants be appointed for the greenway in February? 

•  When will details of the local enhancement plans issue? 

•  Request for the number of vacancies in the Fire Service in New Ross. 

•  Development in relation to Kilmore Quay Enterprise Hub welcomed. 

•  Is there difficulty getting builders to quote for the Croí Conaithe Scheme? 

•  Can we get NBI to make a presentation to the Council? 

•  Increase in grant funding to €12,000 for septic tank works welcomed – can the scheme be 

advertised and the fact that registration has been reopened? 

•  Establishment of Integration Team welcomed.  

•  Request that report detailing the number of refugees placed across the County and the 

number of indigenous people in the areas of settlement be provided as requested in 

December. 

 
County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

•  Request that Wexford County Council support an exhibition prior to the Fleadh showcasing 

Wexford’s rich heritage and culture in areas such as mumming, uillean pipes, Comhaltas etc. 

•  Timeline for traffic calming works in Tagoat. 

Cllr. C. Byrne left the meeting at this point. 

•  Request for update on unspent Oris funding in Enniscorthy MD. 

Cllr. G. Lawlor left the meeting at this point. 

Chief Executive Tom Enright updated the Members in relation to a Southeast bid which was 

submitted to host the World Rally Championship in 2025. A decision is due to be announced in the 

coming days.  

7. 

Minutes for Noting 

Minutes of Meetings (For Noting): 

7.1       New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 8th November, 2023   

7.2      Rosslare Municipal District Meeting – 15th November, 2023 

7.3      Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 20th November, 2023 

7.4      Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 20th November, 2023 

7.5       Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 21st November, 2023 

7.6       Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment SPC - 14th September, 2023 

7.7       Special Economic Development & Enterprise SPC - 4th July, 2023 

7.8       Transportation & Water Services SPC - 4th July, 2023 

The members noted the above minutes. 

8. 

Correspondence and Communications 

8.1      Letters from Clare County Council re motions dated 12th December, 2023 

The members noted the above correspondence. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

9. 

Councillor’s Conferences and Training  

9.1  List of Conferences / Training - List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh, the Council approved 
attendance for the following conference and training: 

Training 
19th – 20th January 2024 

LAMA Spring Seminar “Building For Success” – Donegal Town 

Conference 
2nd – 4th February 2024 Celtic Conferences – The Irish Housing Crisis – A Sustainable Option – 
Clonakilty, Co. Cork €130. 

9.2  Councillor's Conference Reports: 

• 

Cllr. P Barden - Irish Social Welfare Scheme, Clonakilty, Co. Cork. 

The members noted the above report, as circulated. 

10. 

Notices of Motion  

10.1  Cllr. T. Forde 
"In light of the current cost of living and energy crises, when reviewing rents in the year of 2024, 
this council will not assess any income increases in the basic social welfare rates that were granted 
through Budget 2024, recognising that these increases are needed to contribute towards food and 
energy costs." 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F.  Ó Súilleabháin and carried. 

Cllr. D. Hynes left the meeting at this point. 

10.2  Cllr. F.  Ó Súilleabháin 
"This council notes that both the Taoiseach and the Tánaiste have suggested that Israel is 
committing war crimes in Gaza. Over 10,000 children have been killed in what Minister Simon 
Harris, has described as "a war on children." 
Leo Varadkar has stated that the failure of Israel to observe humanitarian law ‘can’t be 
inconsequential’ 
War crimes also continue in the Occupied West Bank associated with settlements that are illegal 
under International Law. We note that hundreds of civilians have also been killed there (where 
Hamas doesn't exist), and a school funded by Irish money was demolished recently. 
As an Irish local authority we acknowledge that we can no longer stand by as complacent witnesses 
to ongoing war crimes and constant breaches of International law. 
There must be consequences and Ireland is best placed to lead the way, just as we did with 
Apartheid South Africa.  
This council is requesting that Ireland should also exercise our right as a state party to the Rome 
Statute of the International Criminal Court to refer the actions in Palestine and Israel to the 
Prosecutor of the court for the purpose of requesting an investigation into any acts of war crimes, 
crimes against humanity and genocide that have occurred in Gaza over recent months. 
We further support the growing call to invoke the Genocide Convention. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

That Wexford County Council re-echoes the call of Dublin Local Authorities in formally supporting 
the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions Movement (BDS) against apartheid Israel, as a peaceful 
campaign for change. 
We therefore call for the enactment of the Control of Economic Activity (Occupied Territories) Bill 
2018 and the Illegal Israeli Settlements Divestment Bill 2023 as a matter of urgency. 
We request that this motion be circulated to all local authorities." 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. F.  Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde and carried. 

10.3  Cllr. T. Forde 
"This council will adapt policy and use a sensible approach to seek to award time back to vulnerable 
housing applicants, who have been intermittently on/off the housing list, for a period of time and 
who have been removed as they struggled to manage the submission of some minor paperwork 
due to mental and health difficulties in their lives or if their removal was due to loss of paperwork 
by the council." 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. F.  Ó Súilleabháin and carried. 

11. 

Any Other Business. 

Cllr. G. Laffan asked if two weeks can be allowed for housing applicants to express an interest in a 
property on the Choice Based Letting system and if there is any possibility that written expressions 
could be submitted. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Feabhra, 2024. 

________________________  

________________________ 

Cllr. John Fleming 

Cathaoirleach  

Michael Drea,  

County Secretary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
