County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held Monday 11th November 2024 
 in the Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Boland 

Nicky 

Kehoe 

Pat 

Ó Súilleabháin 

Fionntán 

Browne 

Byrne 

Carthy 

Codd 

Aidan 
(online) 
Cathal 

Ger 

Jim 

Kelly 

Kenny 

Laffan 

Leonard 

Owens 

Jackser 

Donal 

Shannon 

Raymond 

Garry 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Lawlor  

George 

Staples 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

McDonald 

Dwyer 

John 

McDonald 

Farrell 

Fleming 

Mary 
(online) 
John 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Darragh 
(online) 
Lisa 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Staples 

Sullivan 

Walsh 

Walsh 

Forde  

Tom 

Murphy 

Marty 

Officials: 

Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. S. Howell, A/Director of Services 
Ms. L. Lacey, Head of Finance 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: Cllr. John O’Rourke 

Frank  

Robbie 
(online) 
Joe 

Catherine 
Biddy 
 Oliver 

Page 1 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of Leonard Warren, Cross St., New Ross, Co. Wexford. 
•  The family of Steven Wallace, Cleariestown, Co. Wexford. 
•  The family of Brandon Roche, Wexford Town. 
•  The family of Felix Nolan, Bunclody, Co. Wexford. 
•  The family of Terence Aspel, Terrerath, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

Congratulations: 

Cllr. J. Sullivan congratulated Castletown Liam Mellows on winning the senior football County Final, 
Intermediate ‘A’ hurling County Final, and the girls on winning the Rackard League. 
Cllr.  J.  Fleming  congratulated  Rathnure  on winning the  Intermediate  hurling  County  Final, Duffry 
Rovers on winning the Junior hurling County Final, and all local Tidy Towns groups who won awards 
at the recent Tidy Towns Awards. 
Cllr. J. Dwyer congratulated Celtic Dragon Kickboxing Club in New Ross on winning four medals at 
the World Kickboxing Championships in Austria. 
Cllr. A.R. O’Brien congratulated all children who participated in the Rackard Leagues. 
Cllr. G. Lawlor and Cllr. O. Walsh congratulated and commended Brendan Howlin and Paul Kehoe 
who are retiring from service in the Dáil on their outstanding public service. 
Cllr. O. Walsh congratulated Blackwater Tidy Towns group  on being Wexford's tidiest village and 
winning  a  gold  medal  at  the  National Tidy  Towns 2024.  Cllr.  Walsh  outlined  that  Blackwater 
improved their marks by 10 points and only finished 3 points behind the overall winner. He called 
on Wexford County Council to row in behind the group for next year’s competition. 
Cllr.  G.  Laffan  congratulated  The  Rocks  in  Wexford  town  on  being  named  the  best  urban 
neighbourhood  in  the  country  and  Fethard-on-Sea  on  being  named  runner-up  in  the  population 
1,000-2,000 category at the Pride of Place community awards.  
Cllr. B.A. Murphy congratulated Tommy Armstrong on winning the 55+ B Doubles World Handball 
Final, and Jimmy Dunne and Tom Byrne on winning the 65+ Doubles World Handball Plate Final. 
Cllr. L. McDonald and Cllr. J. Codd congratulated St. Martins on winning the Senior Hurling County 
Final and St. Annes who contested the final. 
Cllr. L. McDonald congratulated Wexford Tidy Towns on winning a gold medal at the National Tidy 
Towns 2024. 
Cllr.  J.  Codd  congratulated  all  Wexford  handballers  who  won  medals  at  the  World  Handball 
Championships,  reserving  special  mention  for  the  successful  Taghmon  handballers  and  the  hard 
work of Joe Sidney. 
Cllr. J. Codd congratulated Fr. Jim Kehoe, Carrig on Bannow on his retirement. 
Cllr. J. Owens congratulated Enniscorthy Tidy Towns on winning a gold medal at the National Tidy 
Towns 2024. 

1. 

Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 County Council Meeting 14th October, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 14th October, 2024. 

Page 2 of 9 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

Matters Arising: 
Cllr. J. Owens enquired if a school warden will be hired for St. Aidan’s school. Mr. E. Taaffe 
committed to a review once the new arrangements are bedded in and will revert to a 
Municipal District meeting on the matter. 
Cllr. T. Forde enquired if legal opinion was sought in relation to a suggestion from some 
Councillor’s that funding increases should be withheld from Councillor’s who voted against 
the 15% LPT. Mr. E. Taaffe advised that no legal opinion was sought. 
Cllr. A.R. O’Brien asked that the establishment of a Mental Health Committee as outlined in 
Cllr. O’Brien and Cllr. Forde’s October motion which was carried be listed as an agenda 
item at the December meeting. There was a lengthy discussion in which Mr. E. Taaffe 
outlined that due to resource constraints, a new committee would not be established as 
there is currently an existing committee which can deal with the issue. Mr. Taaffe advised 
that the Members could form their own committee but the Executive will be unable to 
service it. 
There were contributions from Cllr.’s A.R. O’Brien, T. Forde, M. Sheehan, G. Carthy, R. 
Shannon, C. B. Walsh, J. Dwyer, and J. Owens. On the proposal of Cllr. F. Staples, it was 
agreed that a presentation outlining the remit and work of the Healthy County Committee 
will be arranged for the Members. 

1.2 County Council Meeting 9th September, 2024 – Amendment 
On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Council resolved to 
confirm the amended Minutes of the County Council Meeting on 9th September, 2024.  

2.  

Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Intention to dispose of land at Ramsfort Park, Gorey, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh the Council resolved to 
dispose of land at Ramsfort Park, Gorey, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out 
in the S.183 Notice as circulated.  

2.2 Intention to lease newly constructed building to the rear of the former Bank of Ireland 
premises at St. Martin’s Road, Rosslare Harbour. 
On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd the Council resolved to lease 
the newly constructed building to the rear of the former Bank of Ireland premises at St. 
Martin’s Road, Rosslare Harbour, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice 
as circulated. 

2.3 Intention to dispose of property known as “The Old Bike Shop”, Priory Street, New 
Ross, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
dispose of the property known as “The Old Bike Shop”, Priory Street, New Ross, Co. 
Wexford, in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.4 Intention to transfer a portion of land at Marshmeadows, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 
On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy the Council resolved to 
transfer a portion of land at Marshmeadows, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with 
the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

Page 3 of 9 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

2.5 Intention to extend the lease of lands at Seamount, Ardamine, Co. Wexford to 
Courtown Sailing Club. 
On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh the Council resolved to 
extend the lease of lands at Seamount, Ardamine, Co. Wexford to Courtown Sailing Club, in 
accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

3.  

Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 
Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1 LAC2406 - To develop a skate park plaza on the grounds that formed part of the old 
New Ross rail station located in Rosbercon, New Ross, Co. Wexford.  
Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, 
seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 to develop a skate 
park plaza on the grounds that formed part of the old New Ross rail station located in 
Rosbercon, New Ross, Co. Wexford, in accordance with the terms of LAC2406, as 
circulated. 

4. 

Audited AFS 2023 & Audit Report 2023 

Having considered the report of Ms. L. Lacey, on the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded 
by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Council resolved to approve the Audited AFS 2023 and Statutory 
Audit Report to the Members of Wexford County Council for the year ended 31st 
December 2023, as circulated. 

5. 

Draft Corporate Plan 2025 - 2029 

Ms. A. Byrne circulated a draft of the Corporate Plan 2025 – 2029. There was a discussion 
in relation to some of the goals and the language around them. Ms. A. Byrne advised that 
the final draft will be brought before the December meeting. 

6. 

Replacement of Cllr. Frank Staples on Healthy County Committee 

This agenda item was deferred. 

7. 

Chief Executives Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Frustration expressed in relation to recent media reports indicating that the new SETU 

Wexford campus is unlikely to be a reality before 2028. 

•  Update sought on the master planning of the lands at Ballynagee. 
•  Query raised in relation to dereliction in our towns and if Wexford County Council is 

doing all in its power to address the issue. 
Is priority being given to the delivery of one and two bed units? 

• 
•  Request that kitchens and wardrobes be assessed when a tenant moves out to 
establish if they need to be replaced or are sufficient for the incoming tenant. 

Page 4 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

• 

 Observation that the number of homeless calls outlined in the Chief Executive’s report 
is very high. 

•  Request that the Housing SPC consider the policy around how an applicant becomes a 

special category case. 

•  Frustration that some buildings which are in very poor repair such as the old hospital 

aren’t being pursued as derelict sites because they are protected structures. 
•  Request that bollards aren’t placed outside businesses, and if bollards are to be 

installed it should be in consultation with the business. 

•  Query in relation to the rules pertaining to mud being brought out of fields onto the 

public road during harvesting. 

•  Request that any design for safety works to address the issues at Tominearly and 

Leeches bend be shown to the Members before going to tender. 

•  Request for signage for blackspot areas for illegal dumping. 
•  Request that the housing allocation scheme be amended to assist families of children 

with special needs. 

•  Call for active travel funding for rural areas. 
•  Status of Ramsgrange wastewater treatment plant in light of funding transfer to Uisce 

Éireann. 

•  Update on Enniscorthy and Bunclody CCTV applications. 
•  Update on Ballycarney junction and Clohamon road works. 
•  Query why there are no projects listed for Enniscorthy Municipal District in housing 

capital section of Chief Executive’s report. 

•  Request that IPAS consider level of services available in an area when considering 

accommodation options. 

•  Has additional funding been provided for more bus shelters? 
•  Timeline for RRDF scheme reopening. 
•  Timeline for affordable housing schemes across County Wexford. 
•  Funding for Larkin’s Cross works welcomed. 
•  Request that Glenville Road works be prioritised now that Newtown Road Active travel 

works are completed. 

•  Request that motion seeking funding for active travel in rural areas be forwarded to 

TII. 

•  Query as to what can be done to assist those who are unable to avail of housing 

services in homelessness. 

•  Can Wexford County Council assist some handball clubs who don’t hold title to their 

alleys. 

•  Disappointment expressed that the €3.2m spent on the active travel scheme for 

Newtown Road exceeds the budget for Rosslare Municipal District roads. 

•  Frustration expressed that the real extent of housing need isn’t reflected in the social 

housing list numbers. 

•  When will portal for expressions of interest for affordable housing units in Gorey 

open? 

•  Update sought on Gorey Market House. 
•  Plaque required to mark world tin whistle record set during the fleadh. 
• 

Is it possible to establish a communications portal that individuals and businesses can 
sign up to for Fleadh 2025? 

•  Plans for works to Castlebridge grain store. 

Page 5 of 9 

 
 
County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

8. 

Minutes of CPG 

8.1 Minutes of CPG Meeting 4th November, 2024 
On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly the Council resolved to 
confirm the Minutes of the CPG Meeting on 4th November, 2024. 

After a brief discussion it was agreed that the budget meeting will be held on 25th 
November at 8.30am. 

9. 

Minutes of Meetings (for Noting): 

9.1 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 17th September, 2024 
9.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 25th September, 2024 
9.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 16th September, 2024 
9.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 17th September, 2024 

 The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

10. 

Correspondence and Communications 

10.1 Letters from Donegal County Council re motions dated 10th October, 2024 
10.2 Email from Westmeath County Council re motion dated 14th October, 2024 
10.3 Letters from Roscommon County Council re: motions dated 15th October, 2024 
10.4 Letter from Fingal County Council re: motion dated 15th October, 2024 
10.5 Email from Office of Minister for Justice re: motion dated 1st November, 2024 

 The Members noted the correspondence, as circulated. 

11. 

Councillor's Conferences and Training 

11.1 Councillors Conference Report 
•  Cllr. Michael Sheehan - Celtic Conferences “A Practical Guide to Budget 2025” 

-  October 2024. 

•  Cllr. J. Fleming - Celtic Conferences “A Practical Guide to Budget 2025” - October 2024. 
•  Report from KIMO International Trip – 9th– 11th October, 2024 
•  Report on Delegation London / Wexford – October, 2024 

The Members noted the reports. 

12. 

Notices of Motion 

12.1 Wexford County Council Women's Coalition 
'We ask that Wexford County Council amend the structure and composition of Wexford Co. 
Council's Protocol Committee to include a woman in order to ensure both male and female 
representation on it.' 

Page 6 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, the motion was 
carried. 

12.2 Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 
“This Council notes that: 
· The Housing Commission report recommended a radical reset of housing policy, including 
the delivery of an average of 60,000 new build homes a year over the next five years 
· The Housing Commission also recommended that 20% of all housing stock should be 
social and affordable, which would require a doubling of public housing output on current 
levels 
This Council agrees to: 
· Write to Minister for Housing, Local Government & Heritage calling on him to double the 
direct capital funding for social and affordable housing to deliver at least 25,000social and 
affordable homes on average over the next five years. 
· To introduce the necessary reforms to enable Councils to increase and accelerate the 
delivery of public housing and to ensure that affordable homes to rent and buy are 
delivered at prices that working people can actually afford.” 

On the proposal of Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde, the motion was put to 
a show of hands and defeated. 

Cllr.’s G. Lawlor and M. Murphy left the meeting at this point. 

12.3 Cllr. T. Forde 
“This Council deplores those corporations that profit from protracted armed conflict and 
systematic violations of human rights, particularly in the context of Israel’s continuing 
brutal assault on the people of Gaza and escalating settler terrorism in the West Bank, 
Russia’s ongoing war of aggression against Ukraine, and other conflicts around the world. 
With this motion, the Council encourages companies to meet their obligations to avoid 
contributing to adverse human rights impacts through their own activities, and to prevent 
or mitigate human rights abuses linked to their operations. 
The Council is aware of the crucial role of local authorities and their public procurement 
procedures in ensuring respect for human rights by companies, as well as their obligations 
under widely accepted business and human rights norms – as laid down in the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 
and the Global Sullivan Principles (1999) – to promote respect for human rights by 
companies with which they do business. 
The Council affirms that every endeavour is made to ensure that councils tender processes 
are consistent with the above principles, including under the Fourth Geneva convention 
relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War and under customary 
international humanitarian law, prohibiting the importation or sale of goods or services 
originating in occupied territories. 
This Council resolves to adopt a rights-based Ethical Procurement Policy (EPP) that takes 
fully into account existing obligations and standards. The EPP will incorporate widely 
accepted and precisely formulated international standards and explain clearly how the 
policy will be implemented. The primary aim of the EPP is to ensure that human rights 
obligations are properly acknowledged, observed and respected at all stages of the 
procurement process.” 

Page 7 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, the motion was put to a 
show of hands and defeated. 

12.4 Cllr. A.R. O’Brien 
"This council recognises that the current Vacant Homes Tax, currently levied at 5 times the 
Local Property Tax, is too low to act as an effective deterrent on the scourge of vacancy, 
and must be increased and, furthermore, should be increased annually in accordance with 
the length of time properties remain vacant. We ask that this council write to the Ministers 
for Finance and Housing and request that action is taken on this issue and to provide a 
written response to this council." 

On the proposal of Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. T. Forde, the motion was put to a 
show of hands and defeated. 

12.5 Cllr. P. Kehoe. 
"That Wexford County Council calls on Irish Public Bodies Mutual Insurances (IPB) to 
provide affordable underwriting options for insurance cover specifically tailored to the 
needs of community centres and similar community organizations. These centres are 
essential to the social fabric of our communities, providing valuable services and facilities 
that support health, well-being, and social inclusion. However, rising insurance premiums 
are increasingly limiting the ability of community groups to operate and expand their 
services. 
By offering more affordable insurance options, IPB could enable community centres to 
continue and enhance their work without the heavy burden of unsustainable insurance 
costs. Wexford County Council urges IPB to consider the positive impact of such support on 
communities across the county and to act in the interest of promoting accessible, 
community-based services for all." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. P. Kehoe and seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne. 
Cllr. B.A. Murphy proposed and amendment to include “playgrounds” in the motion which 
was seconded by Cllr. P. Kehoe and carried. 
Cllr. P. Kehoe asked that the motion be forwarded to all local authorities also. 

The amended motion which was carried is as follows: 
"That Wexford County Council calls on Irish Public Bodies Mutual Insurances (IPB) to 
provide affordable underwriting options for insurance cover specifically tailored to the 
needs of community centres and similar community organisations and playgrounds. These 
centres are essential to the social fabric of our communities, providing valuable services 
and facilities that support health, well-being, and social inclusion. However, rising 
insurance premiums are increasingly limiting the ability of community groups to operate 
and expand their services. 
By offering more affordable insurance options, IPB could enable community centres to 
continue and enhance their work without the heavy burden of unsustainable insurance 
costs. Wexford County Council urges IPB to consider the positive impact of such support on 
communities across the county and to act in the interest of promoting accessible, 
community-based services for all." 

Page 8 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.11.24 

12.6 Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 
“That Wexford County Council, in light of the recent ruling by the International Court of 
Justice on the illegality of Israeli settlements in Occupied Palestinian Territories (and 
following a similar plea from other local authorities) calls on the Irish Government to enact 
the Occupied Territories Bill as a matter of urgency, to cut Irish trade ties with Israeli goods 
and services produced in these illegal settlements.” 

On the proposal of Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, the motion was 
carried. 

Cllr.’s L. Kelly, L. McDonald, O. Walsh, and C. Byrne left the meeting at this point. 

12.7 Cllr. T. Forde  
"This Council recognises that the Local Property Tax is not working as a funding model for 
County Wexford. We ask that the next government fund local authorities through a model 
that is based on the needs of each county including roads networks, housing need etc." 

The motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and seconded by Cllr. P. Barden. 
Cllr. G. Laffan proposed an amendment removing the first line of the motion which was 
seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny and carried on a show of hands. 

The amended motion which was carried is as follows: 
“We ask that the next government fund local authorities through a model that is based on 
the needs of each county including roads networks, housing need etc." 

13. 

Any Other Business 

Mr. E. Taaffe offered best wishes to all Councillors who are standing in the upcoming 
General Election. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Nollaig, 2024. 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 9 of 9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
