 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 11th March, 2019 – 2.00 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
W. Fitzharris;  
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor;  
M. Murphy; 
M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 

Officials: 

G. Carthy; 
M. Doyle 
J. Fleming;    
R. Ireton; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen; 
M. Sheehan;  
T. Walsh;  

K. Codd Nolan; 
A. Donohoe;   
T. Forde;  
P. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien;  
F. Staples;               J. Sullivan;  
M. Whelan. 

A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
J. Hegarty; 
W. Kavanagh;   
B.A. Murphy;  
F. Ó Súilleabháin; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services;  
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance & ICT; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary;  

Apologies:   

Councillors P. Breen; J. O’Rourke 

At  the  outset,  the  Cathaoirleach  welcomed  Senator  John  Dolan,  Disability  Federation 
Ireland to the meeting. He also welcomed other guests and members of staff. 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Kathleen Doyle, mother of Mick Doyle, Executive Engineer, Housing 

Dept. 

  The family of Amy Noblett, Hollyfort, Gorey 
  The family of David Hasslacher, Clonhaston, Enniscorthy 
  The Colfer family New Ross  
  The family of Aidan Kehoe, Templeudigan 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  St. Martin’s Camogie Team, beaten finalists in the AIB All Ireland Senior Club 

Championship Final. 

1 

 
 
                                                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

  Enniscorthy Rugby Club who won the Leinster League Division 1A Junior trophy 
  Bunclody Golf Club who will host the Irish PGA Championship in August 2019. 
  Wexford  CBS for their recent 5k Fundraiser  
  Kilmuckridge Vocational College student, Alanna Hammel for her success in the 

regional public speaking competition hosted by Soroptimists International Ireland. 
  Dean Kennedy from New Ross who won the U95kg. Strongman title in Ballynahinch, 

Co.Down. 

  Wexford Senior Hurling Team on their recent victory over Kilkenny 

1.  Presentation 
Programmes: 

from  Wexford  Local  Development  re  SICAP  and  LEADER 

The presentation was made by Brian Kehoe and Claire Ryan.  Brian Kehoe  clarified that 
this  presentation  would  deal  with  the  SICAP  Programme  2018-2022  only  and  not  the 
LEADER Programme. 

The SICAP Programme 2018-2022 was circulated to the Members. 

Following  the  presentation,  questions  and  issues  raised  by  Members  included  the 
following: 

  The level of collaboration is worrying - certain sections of the community have not got 
the skill levels or capacity needed to collaborate to avail of the SICAP Programme. This 
weakness needs to be addressed. 

  Barriers stopping collaboration and the need for root and branch reform. 
  Participation in third level education/Poverty levels in Co. Wexford 
  The  question  was  raised  as  to  whether  or  not  €1.6m  per  annum  can  make  a  huge 

difference in the county. 

  The  RAPID  Programme  which  took  place  in  Wexford  Town  several  years  ago  was 
mentioned as an example of good practice in obtaining good results for the community. 
It  was  also  noted  that  there  was  a  drop  in  funding  for  community  initiatives  since  the 
financial crash and a massive amount of investment required. 

 

  Brian  Kehoe, WLD,  advised  that  the  SICAP  Programme  is  geared  to  help  individuals 
and  groups  –  WLD  will  try  to  measure  what  the  SICAP  Programme  will  do,  but  he 
emphasised that the Programme is not looking at the overall community.  The impact is 
not on the overall community but will accrue to individuals and groups. SICAP will not 
make any impact on the overall disadvantage in the County 

  He  noted  that  factors  leading  to  poverty  include  income,  economic  development, 

education, childcare, health, housing and transport. 

  Claire Ryan, WLD, noted that the RAPID Programme was highly successful 
  Lack of collaboration was mentioned 
  Allocation  of  €1.6m  -  €1.7m  per  annum  is  asking  the  SICAP  Programme  to  do  the 

impossible 

  The  decades  of  total  exclusion  for  Wexford  with  no  3rd  Level  Education  and  social 

deprivation will take a huge amount of investment to sort out 

  The  need  to  develop  capacity  for  those  communities  not  benefited  from  SICAP  and 

other schemes 

  Brian  Kehoe,  WLD,  mentioned  that  the  involvement  of  professional  people  in 
community groups is a big help towards the completion of applications for funding and 
proper governance i.e. GDPR etc. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

  There is also a burnout factor for persons who work with community groups over a long 

period of time 

  The  lack  of  improvement  change  between  2011  and  2019  on  27  small  areas  of  the 

county which were identified as socially deprived. 

  Many of the people coming from those socially deprived areas are not finishing primary 

or secondary level education 

  Many are on social welfare with low incomes and find it difficult to get employment as 

they would have to give up benefits of being on social welfare. 

  The  need  to  have  social  events  to  meet  with  local  people  rather  than  calling  to  their 

 

doors 
If the SICAP payments are not making a difference then we need to change how the 
process is done 

  Spend  the  SICAP  money  wisely  seeing  as  how  it  has  been  reduced  over  the  last  10 

years 

At 3.15 p.m. Cllr. J. Moore arrived 

 

 

It is a big ask for voluntary people to take part in community groups; perhaps a form of 
mentoring  from  retired  people,  who  could  be  motivated  to  get  involved  could  be  an 
approach to help community groups in some of these disadvantaged areas. 
It  was  noted  that  the  higher  education  attainment  has  been  improved  –  County 
Wexford participation is now at the national average, but not in deprived areas  of the 
County 

  Pobal figures for 2011-2016 show that Wexford is very disadvantaged - the issues are 
not  just  about  SICAP  but  there  is  need  for  the  agencies  to  work  together  to  reduce 
disadvantage and social exclusion in the county. 

  LEADER funding  is not  targeted at  areas of  social  exclusion;  instead better educated 
areas  are  targeted.  Capacity  building  and  train  the  trainer  would  help  the  less 
advantaged areas. 

  There is a need to work with the agencies 
  The  question  was  raised  as  to  whether  or  not  there  would  be  a  reduction  in 

disadvantage by 2021  

  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  sought  a  breakdown  of  the  salaries  and  administration  on  WLD 

 

programmes. 
It was noted that LCDC collaborates with WLD and there may be a need for Councillors 
to get involved. There is need for leadership at a local level and there is too much form 
filling  and  bureaucracy.  Politicians  could  help  by  lobbying  for  extra  money  for 
disadvantaged communities.  

  The need for further education and after-school services was also highlighted. 
  Brian Kehoe, WLD, mentioned that the Community Leadership Programme is in place; 
he also knows that disadvantaged areas tend to have the same problems all over the 
country. There is a problem in getting people involved. 

  Claire  Ryan  noted  that  collaboration  via  the LCDC  is the  key  to  dealing  with  many  of 

the issues raised. 

  The  strategy  WLD  has  in  place  to  deal  with  disadvantaged  areas  and  how  they  deal 
with  issues  such  as  addiction,  mental  health  –  are  they  referred  to  agencies  to  deal 
with these problems?   

  Claire Ryan, WLD clarified that mental health issues are referred to statutory agencies 

 

and the Cornmarket Project, where appropriate.  
 It was stated that there is a two  tier system in operation; there is a need for national 
recognition of the position and the scale of the problem in County Wexford. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

  Cllr.  K.  Codd  Nolan  spoke  as  Chair  of  LCDC  and  noted  that  it  was  very  important  to 
have discussions like today; that the debate was very good and it is open now for the 
LCDC  to  see  what  can  be  done  to  deal  with  issues  raised.    While  there  is  no  easy 
solution,  from  today’s  discussions  it  is  apparent  that  collaboration  is  the  name  of  the 
game - the idea coming through the discussion is the need to work together to achieve 
as  much  as  possible  for  disadvantaged  communities.  She  added  that  it  may  be 
possible,  working  with  WLD,  to  identify  opportunities  to  deal  with  some  of  the  issues 
raised on a pilot basis over the next 3 years. 

  The Cathaoirleach noted that it was very evident that it is difficult to make an impact on 
the towns and the urban areas and it was hard to see the wins in urban settings.  He 
also pointed out the need to be careful that the right areas are targeted and to find out 
what will suit individual areas.  

The  Cathaoirleach  thanked  Brian  Kehoe  and  Claire  Ryan  for  their  presentation  and  their 
comprehensive responses. Finally, the Chief Executive thanked Brian and Claire for their 
co-operation with Wexford County Council and the work being done throughout the county. 

2.  Presentation of Draft County Wexford Tourism Strategy 2019-2023: 

Tom  Banville,  SEO,  Local  Enterprise  Office  then  presented  the  Draft  County  Wexford 
Tourism Strategy 2019-2023, which had previously been circulated to the Members of the 
Council. He advised the Members that he was seeking their approval to adopt the Strategy 
at the meeting. 

Following  the  presentation,  there  was  a  wide  ranging  discussion  with  regard  to  many 
aspects  of  tourism  in  the  county.  Following  the  discussion,  the  Cathaoirleach  proposed 
that the strategy be deferred to the next meeting of the Council and this was agreed. 

It was also agreed that, if Members had concerns with the Strategy, they could email them 
to the Tourism Office. Such concerns would be discussed at the Economic SPC which will 
take place next week, and then, if appropriate, referred back as part of the draft Strategy to 
the April 2019 Meeting of the Council. 

Cllr. Tom Forde left the meeting. 
Cllr. Paddy Kavanagh left the meeting. 

3.  Confirmation of Minutes 

3.1 County Council Meeting – 11th February 2019  

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  and  agreed  by  all,  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

3.2 Special County Council Meeting – 11th February 2019 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  and  agreed  by  all,  the 
Council approved the minutes of the Special meeting as outlined above.  

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

4.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

LAC1810 – Proposed development of existing site to provide 17 No. Social Housing Units 
at Carley’s Bridge, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe and agreed by all the 
proposed development as submitted to the meeting was approved. 

5.  Economic Development Programme 2019-2024 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen the report of the Director 
of Services dated 11th March 2019 outlining the Economic Development Programme 2019-
2024 was agreed. 

6.  3 Year Capital Programme 2019-2021 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance, presented the Programme, which had previously been 
circulated, to the Members. 

The Head of Finance highlighted that the projects in the Programme were broken down 
under Programme Groups including Special Projects. The Programme sets out proposed 
capital expenditure for the next three years and it identified the sources of funding for 
these capital projects. A new designation “Awaiting funding” has also been included to 
cover projects for which a funding source has not yet been identified. 

She noted that €369m will be required from both borrowing and local funding to deliver the 
3 Year Capital Programme. 

Following discussion, the Chief Executive advised the Members that the 3 Year Capital 
Programme for 2019-2021 will not be impacted in any material way by the new 
configuration of the Districts following the upcoming Local Elections.  He will bring 
proposals re the new arrangements to the next Council following the Local Elections. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all, the 
proposed Programme, as submitted to the meeting, was approved. 

7.  Report of the Mental Health Sub-Committee  

Cllr. Tony Walsh then presented the Mental Health Sub-Committee Report which outlined 
the work that had been done by the sub-committee and he thanked all those involved. 

Following discussion, it was agreed that the recommendations of the sub-committee be 
dealt with as follows: 

  A copy of the report should be sent to the Minister, with a letter seeking a 

deputation comprising of the members of the Sub-committee and  

  The delegation should also seek funding for an expert report to be prepared on the 

effect of lack of resources in mental health issues in Wexford. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

8.  Local Elections Update 

The County Secretary then advised the Members as follows: 

 

In accordance with Article 55 of the Local Elections Regulations 1995, the County 
Secretary sought a formal vote on the allocation of Polling Cards to the 583 persons 
who only have a vote in the Local Elections in County Wexford. 

  The County Secretary then advised the Members that Supplementary Forms must 
be submitted to get electors onto the Supplementary Register before Tuesday 7th 
May 2019.  A supply of forms was given to each Member of the Council. 

  Finally the County Secretary advised that, in the forthcoming elections, the opening 

of boxes will take place in County Hall and that the count proper for Local 
Government Elections will take place in St. Joseph’s Hall in Bishopswater.  

 

9.  Report of Corporate Policy Group. 

The Report of the Corporate Policy Group of 5th March 2019 was noted by the meeting.  

10. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members. The Chief Executive 
and members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from 
the report including the following: 

  Service Level Agreement with Irish Water 
Issues and problems with Irish Water  
 
  The employment of meter readers by Wexford County Council 
  A house in St. Martin’s Park which has been vacant for one year  
  Sewerage Treatment Plant for Ballycullane 
 
  House building in North County Wexford  

Illegal dumping 

The Cathaoirleach then asked for Standing Orders to be suspended to allow the 
meeting to continue to 6pm – this was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. M. 
Sheehan and agreed by all present. 

Issues with the HAP contract with regard to clients who are in arrears 

  The opening date for the N25 By-Pass  
 
  Update on the Curracloe Greenway 
  Rent deposit and rent in advance being asked for by landlords for the HAP scheme 
  Update on the Rebuilding Ireland Mortgages 
  The Enniscorthy By-Pass – the need to alleviate traffic problems in the area 
  The expansion of information given to Members in respect of the housing allocation 

list 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan 
seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by all. 

 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

12. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor, and agreed by all the 
Members present, the following minutes were noted and approved: 

    12.1 Borough District of Wexford 21.01.19 
12.2 Gorey Municipal District 15.01.19 
12.3 Enniscorthy Municipal District 21.01.19  
12.4 New Ross Municipal District 09.01.19 

13. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted by the Members. 

14. Correspondence and Communications 

  Correspondence from the Minister for Health concerning the Standing4Women 

Campaign  

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the Members.  

15. Deferred Notices of Motion: 

2.6 Cllr. M. Doyle: 

“In support of events to mark the sitting of the first Dáil and in recognition of it's historic 
importance, I propose that Wexford County Council take this opportunity to recognise 
the core principles of the Democratic Programme of the First Dáil by displaying a 
framed copy of the document in a prominent place in this chamber."  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Doyle seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and 
agreed by all. 

2.7 Cllr. R. Ireton: 

“On behalf of Aitheantas I am calling on Wexford County Council to write to Minister 
Zappone’s Department requesting/demanding that her Department acknowledges 
Adoptee Identity Rights and immediately shows Adoptees access to their own 
information on health, history and heritage in line with the equality and personal 
autonomy rights of other citizens and as voted for in two referenda”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. R. Ireton seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and 
agreed by all. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

2.8 Cllr. M. Whelan: 

“That Wexford County Council review its development fees for Solar farms in the 
county and raise them to a level that would reflect the impact on the local community”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming and 
agreed by all. 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, advised that the Council had recently adopted 
changes to its development levies including those on solar farms.  He noted also that 
the Council can’t use levies to deal with planning applications.  At present the Council 
is dealing with such applications on a case by case basis and has granted permissions 
to around 1500 acres of land for solar farms. He also advised that passing the motion 
doesn’t change the Scheme and that the Scheme will need to be reconsidered at some 
point in the future, perhaps as part of the Development Plan. 

2.9 Cllr. J. Hegarty: 

“In line with our ongoing efforts to position County Wexford as a healthy county, I call 
on Wexford County Council to pass on live information and warnings when required in 
relation to the air quality of our main towns to the general public via the Map alert 
system”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty seconded by Cllr. J. Moore and 
agreed by all.  

The Cathaoirleach finished the meeting by saying that the County Secretary would go 
through the remaining motions listed below and advise whether or not they should be 
diverted to SPC’s or District Meetings.  He will inform the press that the motion has 
been put in by individual Councillors.  

2.10 Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“That Wexford County Council condemns the outrageous cost overruns of the planned 
National Children’s Hospital and calls for those responsible to be held to account.” 

2.11 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“That this Council supports our GPs campaign for better terms and conditions with the 
undoing of FEMPI legislation and to calls on the Minister for Health to engage with the 
stakeholders to ensure that practices remain open, new doctors are recruited to ensure  
that practices remain viable and that patients do not have to travel long distances for 
GP appointments”. 

2.12 Cllr. T. Forde: 

"I propose that this Council write separately to RTE, Eurovision Song Contest Ireland 
and the Irish performers, calling on all participants not to play any part in the 2019 
Eurovision Song Contest, due to be held in Israel, until Israel recognises equal rights 
for Palestinians and observers international law." 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

2.13 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“That this Council considers in view of the many housing applicants, that the Council is 
not in a position to provide a social house for at present, would therefore develop a 
more direct link with letting agencies to find out what accommodations are available to 
rent within the HAP income guidelines and as far as possible which landlords will 
accept HAP.  As many applicants are under severe pressure and are often stressed 
trying to find a suitable place to rent”. 

2.14 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Social protection to abandon the costly 
piecemeal practice to reviewing all those affected by the 2012 pension rules changes 
and to reinstate the old criteria of the pre-change State pension while developing a 
mechanism to backdate the full arrears to those pensioners affected” 

2.15 Cllr. F. O’ Súilleabháin: 

"This Council acknowledges the large number of homeowners in County Wexford who 
are currently experiencing mortgage distress. It welcomes the passing of the first stage 
of the ‘No Consent, No Sale" legislation in Leinster House which prevents banks selling 
home mortgages to vulture funds without the consent of the borrower/home-
owner. This council is calling on all T.D.s to facilitate the speedy passage of the bill 
through the remaining legislative stages".   

2.16 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“That this Council calls on the government to reverse the decision by revenue 
to impose VAT at 23% on Food supplements from health stores”. 

15. Notices of Motion 

15.1 Cllr. John Fleming 
“That Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Housing Planning and local 
Government Mr. Eoghan Murphy to allow pensioners who have resided in a County 
Council property for many years to purchase that property regardless of income under 
the tenant purchase scheme”. 

15.2 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 
Noting 

(i) the seriously damaging effects on health and the environment of the continued 
burning of smoky fuels; 
(ii) the motion carried by this Council in March, 2015 seeking to prohibit the burning of 
smoky coals in the County; 
(iii) the announcement in October, 2015 by then Minister, Alan Kelly, of the 
Government's intention to proceed with a nationwide ban; 
(iv) the further motion carried by this Council in March, 2017, expressing concern at the 
failure of Government to proceed with this ban and the continued failure since; 
(v) the call in that motion in March 2017 for the introduction of this ban within six 
months, 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

(vi) the continued evidence of the damage caused by the burning of smoky fuels being 
provided by the Council's own assessments, 

This Council now resolves, 

(vii) to introduce and enforce a Countywide ban on the sale and use of smoky fuels to 
take effect on 1st May, 2019. 
(viii) to provide an information campaign to consumers on the dangers of poor air 
quality and on this ban. 

15.3 Cllr. David Hynes 
“This Council calls on the relevant Minister or administrators of the HAP scheme to 
cover the 4 weeks rent in advance that some landlords are demanding from new 
tenants along with the deposit”.   

15.4 Cllr. Ger Carthy 
“That Wexford County Council  allow Wexford Fire Service participation in the Fire/co-
responder Scheme with the National Ambulance Service (NAS)”. 

15.5 Cllr. Johnny Mythen 

“That this Council calls on the Minister of Transport, to double the fixed charge notice 
,where illegal parking in a disabled bay is detected and to consider using a penalty 
points system in such cases”. 

15.6 Cllr. Michael Sheehan 
“That Wexford County Council calls for changes to the Housing Aid for Older People 
Grant to allow applications from people who ordinarily meet the criteria but who are 
also caring for a resident dependent or family member under the age of 66, who are in 
receipt of a long term disability payment or someone incapable of living alone requiring 
full time care of the applicant”.  

15.7 Cllr. Fionntán Ó’ Súilleabháin 
"That this Council will do a review this Spring on the widespread felling of mature, 
healthy trees which is taking place across County Wexford.  That we will seek to 
implement measures that will preserve this important part of our natural heritage and 
landscape". 

15.8 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 
“That Wexford County Council amend our County Development Plan to permit the 
construction of log cabins or other structures for housing for a defined period and that 
the appropriate amendment and regulations be presented at the April meeting of the 
Council”. 

15.9 Cllr. Michael Sheehan 
“That Wexford County Council Housing section will review it’s transfer policy of current 
tenants and consider accepting transfer applications on the grounds of unresolved 
antisocial behavior as legitimate reasons for requesting a move”. 

15.10 Cllr. Fionntán Ó’ Súilleabháin 
"In the event of a no-deal Brexit, Wexford County Council will back the growing calls for 
an All-Ireland Border Poll, as enshrined under the terms of the Good Friday 
Agreement". 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

16. Any Other Business -  None 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Aibreán, 2019. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
