County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 14th May, 2018 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
T. Walsh; 
J. Sullivan;  

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
T. Forde; 
R. Ireton;  
J. Moore; 
L. McDonald;  

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe;   
W. Fitzharris;  
P. Kavanagh; 
B.A. Murphy;  
L. O’Brien;  
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

K. Codd-Nolan;  
K. Doyle; 
J. Fleming;    
W. Kavanagh;   
M. Murphy; 
O. O’Connell; 
F. Staples;  

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, Senior Executive Officer; 
Ms. E. Morrissey, County Librarian, 
Ms. A. Larkin, Senior Staff Officer;  
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  

Apologies:   

Councillors:   J. O’Rourke; O. Walsh.  

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed a number of visitors to the Council Chamber. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 9th April, 2018. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  B.  A.  Murphy  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  and  agreed  by  all  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Johnny Beary, who was a Member of the Fife and Drum band  
  The family of Aidan Browne, husband of Aideen Hassett, H&S Dept, WCC 
  The family of Caroline Murphy who had been head of the Carlow Campus in St. Peter’s 

College 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

  The family of Toddy Moore, father of Cllr. Jim Moore.  
  The family of Joe Phillips, former employee WCC. 
  The family of Angela Colgan, mother of Bernard Colgan, Machinery Yard. 
  The family of Eamonn Butler, brother of Helen Butler, Planning Department. 
  The family of Elizabeth Carthy, mother in law, Claude Clancy, New Ross TC and Sean 

Kavanagh, Community Dept 

  The family of Emily Stafford, sister of Frances Stafford, Environment Dept and Mary 

Reck, Retired. 

Vóta Comhghairdeas 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The  players and Manager John Godkin of North End United who recently won the 

FAI New Balance Junior Cup Final 

  Enniscorthy Rugby Team – winners of the Towns Cup for the eighth time 
  Mayglass National Schoolgirls taking part in the Leinster Final in 5 aside soccer 
  All  of  the  County  Wexford  drama  groups  who  took  part  in  the  Finals  of  the  All 
Ireland Drama Festival 2018, including the Bridge Drama Group who won a number 
of awards and Ballycogley who won the confined finals. 

  Gateway Orchestra and Male Voice Choir for their recent concert in Wexford Opera 

House and the help given by Liz Burns, Arts Officer to that event. 

  St.  Mary’s  CBS  Soccer  Team,  Enniscorthy  on  winning  the  All  Ireland  under  17 

Schoolboy Cup 

  St. Leonard’s soccer club in New Ross who won the Neil O’ Sullivan Cup 
  Wexford  Ladies  Football  who  won  the  National  Football  League  Final  Division  3 

title. 

  Enniscorthy United on winning the Division 3 Wexford & District League title  
  North End Squad Members Shane Dempsey and Lee Smith 
  The  recent  Darkness  into  Light  events  held  around  the  county  in  support  of  Pieta 

House. 

  Enniscorthy Rugby Club U13’s and U15’s on their recent success 
  Tadhg Furlong’s part in Leinster’s victory in the European Rugby Champions Cup. 

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1  Proposed  transfer  of  land  at  Hill  Street,  Wexford  to  Ard  Aoibhinn  Services 
Ltd, Belvedere Road, Wexford. 

The Council considered the Notice circulated under Section 183 of the Local 
Government Act. 

On the proposal of Councillor W. Fitzharris, seconded by Councillor W. Kavanagh and 
agreed by all, the proposed disposal was agreed. 

2.2  Proposal  to  sub-lease  a  building  at  Wellington  Place,  Wexford  to  Ard 
Aoibhinn Services Ltd, Belvedere Road, Wexford. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

The Council considered the Notice circulated under Section 183 of the Local 
Government Act. 

On the proposal of Councillor G. Carthy, seconded by Councillor T. Forde and agreed 
by all, the proposed disposal was agreed. 

3.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

3.1 LAC 1801 – Proposed Development of Enniscorthy Technology Park at 

Killagoley, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

The  Members  noted  the  report  of  Mr.  T.  Larkin,  D/Chief  Executive  dated  30th  April, 
2018.  Mr.  E.  Taaffe,  Director  of  Services,  advised  that  no  submissions  had  been 
received with regard to this development and he recommended that the Part 8 proceed 
without amendment. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  J.  Mythen,  seconded  by  Cllr.  K.  Doyle  the  Members  agreed 
and approved the proposed development as outlined in the report. 

3.2 LAC1712 – proposed extension to the Market House (protected Structure) to 
provide a multifunctional space including a retail/exhibition/performance 
venue at Main Street, Gorey, Co. Wexford 

The Members noted the report of Mr. T. Larkin, D/Chief Executive dated 2nd May, 2018. 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, advised that 6 submissions had been received and 
that  the  response  to  each  of  those  was  set  out  in  the  report.  A  number  of  questions 
raised by Members were answered by the Director. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the Members agreed 
and approved the proposed development as outlined in the report. 

4.  Fixing of date of Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 

It  was  agreed  that  the  Annual  Meeting  of  Wexford  County  Council  will  take  place  on 
Monday 18th June, 2018 at 11.30 a.m. 

5.  2017 Annual Financial Statement and Head of Finance Report 

The 2017 Annual Financial Statement and Head of Finance Report had been circulated to 
the  Members.    The  Head  of  Finance  took  the  meeting  through  the  report  highlighting 
matters under a number of headings including: 

a.  Revenue Account  
b.  Capital Account  
c.  Fixed Assets  
d.  Indebtedness  
e.  Income  
f.  Spending Over Budget  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

g.  Contingent Liability  

She also advised the meeting that the potential liability associated with the agreement 
entered into with the Council in respect of a road development in Ballynagee in Killeens.  
Under the Accounting Code of Practice for Local Authorities and in accordance with 
FRS102 the Council is obliged to report contingent liabilities of this type. 

The Head of Finance also advised that a surplus on the operations for 2017 of €530,053 
represented the 4th year in succession where a surplus was achieved in the revenue 
account resulting in an overall reduction in the revenue deficit to €4.7m at 31st December 
2017. 

The Members congratulated the Head of Finance for reducing the deficit and asked a 
number of questions regarding various parts of the Report including car parking, costs of 
recent storms, debtors, overspends on festivals. 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. J. Moore the Council agreed to the 
overspend shown on Page 8 of the report in accordance with Section 104 of the Local 
Government Act 2001 and also agreed the Annual Financial Statement 2017. 

6.  Audit Committee Reports 

The Audit Committee Reports which had been circulated to the Members were noted. 

7.  2018 Capital Allocation for Publicly Funded Housing Loans 

The Head of Finance circulated a letter from the Department of Housing, Planning & Local 
Government,  setting  out  the  2018  capital  allocation  for  publicly  funded  housing  loans  to 
Wexford County Council in the sum of €5.5m.  She also gave an update on activity on the 
housing loans programme in 2018 to date and answered questions regarding the reasons 
for refusals in respect of loan applications. 

8.  Traveller  Accommodation  Programme  2014-2018  Wexford  Local  Authorities  – 

Proposed Amendment 

The  Cathaoirleach  advised  the  meeting  that  at  the  CPG  Meeting  it  was  agreed  that  the 
Cathaoirleach  and  the  Director  of  Services  for  Housing  would  meet  with  the  Mayor  of 
Wexford to discuss the amendment to the Traveller Accommodation Programme.   

This meeting had taken place and the matter will now be reviewed by the Borough District 
of  Wexford  with  a  view  to  solving  a  number  of  issues  relating  to  the  amendment.    The 
proposals to amend the Programme will then revert to Wexford County Council for a final 
decision. 

This was proposed by Cllr. P. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all.  

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

9.  Rebuilding Ireland – Social Housing Programme 

A letter from the Minister for Housing, Planning & Local Government  had been circulated 
to the Members.  Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that the Minister had visited 
Wexford  recently  and  was  pleased  with  the  progress  to  date  in  the  Council’s  housing 
programme and noted that Wexford County Council was meeting the targets set. 

A  wide  ranging  discussion  took  place  regarding  housing  which  included  the  following 
issues: 

  The  length  of  time  that  it  takes  for  the  Department  to  approve  proposals from  the 
Council. The Housing Officer advised that the Department had made improvements 
recently and after stage 1 it now takes 59 weeks for housing to be provided. 

  The over reliance on leasing 
  The over reliance on RAS and HAP 
  Security of tenure 
  Buying houses in private estates 
  Reduction in acquisitions over the next couple of years 

The  Chief  Executive  paid  tribute  to  the  Director  of  Services  and  his  staff  for  getting  the 
Programme up and running quickly. He noted that the Council had made a lot of progress 
– in particular, turnkey housing is working very well in County Wexford and is a quick way 
to get numbers of good quality houses across the line.   

He  also  explained  that WCC  will  exceed  its  target  by  26%  in  2018  and  the  Minister  has 
assured the Council that there is no issue with funding. 

The Chief Executive also advised the Minister that the Council has had issues with cash 
flow when there is a delay with funding from the Department. 

10. Storm Emma Debrief Report 

Mr.  J.  Carley,  Director  of  Services,  presented  the  Debrief  Report on  Storm  Emma  which 
had been circulated to the Members.  He advised that the Council had made a claim for 
€4.1m.  He also noted that information regarding coastal storm damage is also been sent 
to the Department.  He expects a letter from the Department to confirm when the money 
will be paid to Wexford County Council.  The Members congratulated the Council on their 
work  during  Storm  Emma  and  raised  a  number  of  issues  regarding  the  collaboration 
between services and reliance on communication. 

Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services, advised that €1.23m was spend on plant and machinery 
and also the Council put forward an application for €2.89m for repairs to roads damaged 
as a result of the weather event.   

The report was noted by the Members. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

11.  Wexford Draft Culture & Creativity Strategy 2018-2022 

Mr.  J.  Carley,  Director  of  Services,  referred  to  a  letter  circulated  to  the  Members  which 
sets out the background and context of the  Draft Strategy.  The County Librarian, Eileen 
Morrissey then gave a detailed presentation highlighting 5 strategic priorities as follows: 

1.  Cultural engagement 
2.  Economy and Culture 
3.  Our Place our Identity 
4.  Culture and Learning 
5.  Culture creativity and wellbeing 

The  Members  asked  a  number  of  questions  regarding  the  Strategy  including  the  the 
following: 

  Use of the Irish language,  
  Wellbeing,  
  Culture night for Councillors and Staff Members,  
  Access via education,  
  P.J. McCall, Yola and mumming,  
  The development of the arts and the involvement of young people in the Arts,  
  Fleadh Ceoil na hÉireann bid by Wexford  
  The use of exhibition space on the Street after hours from time to time. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all Wexford 
Draft Culture & Creativity Strategy 2018-2022 was adopted. 

12. Annual Services Delivery Plan 2018 

Mr.  E.  Taaffe,  Director  of  Services,  presented  the  Annual  Services  Delivery  Plan  2018 
which had been circulated previously. 

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Dempsey seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh the Plan was agreed. 

13. Performance Indicator Report 2016 

Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary, presented the Performance Indicator Report 2016 to the 
meeting.    He  advised  that  the  NOAC  Report  was  part  of  the  documentation  circulated 
which set out the results for the whole country for 2016.   

He  advised  that  the  Council  would  be  presenting  their  own  document  at  the  June  2018 
meeting  regarding  the  figures  for Wexford  in  comparison  to  other  counties  with  a  similar 
population.  He then went on to advise on the update of the key indicators for 2017 which 
had been selected by the Council for particular attention.  

He noted that improvements in the use of online motor tax, mobilisation times for the Fire 
Service  and  an  improvement  in  the  number  of  organizations  on  public  participation 
network (PPN) had all been achieved.  He also advised that the Programme for Housing 
had  improved  as  set  out  earlier  in  the  meeting  and  that  the  3  bin  service  had  been 
increased to a higher number of households in County Wexford. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

A number of issues were raised by Members including private housing, roads maintenance 
outcomes/results for  County Wexford,  issues  with  regard  to  Irish Water and provision  for 
septic tanks in rural parts of Wexford, and the conducting of elections by the PPN. 

It was agreed that all of the candidates standing for election for the PPN should receive a 
list of the groups who will have a vote in the elections. 

The report was noted by the Members. 

14. Draft Skip Bye Laws 2018 

The  Draft  Skip  Bye  Laws  2018  as  circulated  to  the  meeting  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  L. 
O’Brien seconded by Cllr. T. Dempsey and agreed by all.  

15. Report of Corporate Policy Group 

The Report of Corporate Policy Group of 8th May 2018 was noted by the meeting.  

16. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
in relation to the following: 

  The future use of Holmestown and whether or not it will come back into commercial 

operation 

  Rubbish being dumped at Council bins at beaches 
  Current status with regard to Min Ryan Park 
  Bi-monthly report for capital investment projects per district 
  Refusal of one off housing 
  State of rural roads 
  Park in Enniscorthy update 
 

Issues with Seaview beach and slipway arising from storm damage 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  in  accordance  with 
standing orders the meeting was extended to 6.00 p.m. 

  1798 Centre link with other historical events 
  Road maintenance 

At 5.35 p.m. Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services, left the meeting. 

  Timescale for the courthouse in Enniscorthy 
  Major investment decisions in Enniscorthy regarding strategic sites 
  Development of Duncannon Fort 
  Draft waste bye laws 
  Update on Gorey Town Park 
  Update on the meeting with TD’s arising from a motion put by Cllr. L. McDonald 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

  Historical house damage by Storm Emma 
  Paperless County Council 
 

It was agreed that a report on Solar Farms be prepared on foot of a request by Cllr. 
J. Fleming.  

17.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

The  list  of  Councillors’  Conferences  and  Training  as  submitted  to  the  meeting  was 
approved by the Members. The report from Cllr. G. Lawlor on the visit to Willie Redmond’s 
Grave and the Fleurus Twinning Trip were also noted by the Members. 

The  Members  also  approved  the  Vinegar  Hill  Archeology  Conference  25-27  May  2018, 
details of which had been circulated by Cllr. Keith Doyle.  

18. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh, and agreed by all the 
Members present the following minutes were noted and approved: 

18.1Gorey Municipal District Meeting 20.03.18 
18.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 14.03.18 
18.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 20.03.18 
18.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 26.03.18 
18.5 Protocol Meeting of the Borough District of Wexford 27.03.18 
18.6 Planning & Building Control SPC 02.02.18 

19. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted on the proposal of Cllr. 
G. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien. 

20. Correspondence and Communications 

  Correspondence from Marie Goretti Moylan 
  Correspondence from Iarnród Éireann 
  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice and Equality 
  Correspondence from ESB Networks regarding attending County Council Meeting 
  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to the Minister for Housing, Planning and 

Local Government. 

  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to Minister for Transport, Tourism & Sport 

regarding Rosslare Europort 

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the Members. 

Discussion took place regarding the presentation by the ESB which was agreed for the 
June 2018 County Council Meeting. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion took place regarding Wexford  County Council and Wicklow County Council 
seeking  a meeting with Iarnród Éireann The Chief Executive advised that he is scheduled 
to meet a senior representative of Iarnród Éireann in the next few weeks and that a 
meeting with Iarnród Éireann or the Minister could be considered after that meeting. 

County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

21. Notices of Motion 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen it was agreed to extend 
the meeting by another 10 minutes in accordance with Standing Orders. 

Furthermore, on the proposal of the Cathaoirleach, it was agreed to defer motions which 
required debate if the proposer was in agreement.  

21.1  

Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“Given the continued efforts of the Department of Local Government to undermine local 
authorities and the increased centralisation of power in Ireland, this Council calls on the 
government to establish an independent convention on the future of local government, 
that will examine powers, autonomy and funding.  

In the event of the failure of government to act, this Council calls on LAMA and the 
AILG to establish such a convention and to seek cross party support.  

This motion to be circulated to all other local authorities in the State and to request that 
a similar motion be adopted.” 

This motion was deferred. 

21.2 

Cllr. Martin Murphy 

“That this Council calls on the Government to ban the erection of election posters 
during our tourist season "April through September" in order to avoid damaging the 
appearance of our Cities, Towns, Villages and countryside during the main tourist 
season”. 

This motion was deferred.  

21.3      Cllr. David Hynes 

“This Council calls on the Minister for Environment, Planning  and Local Government to 
review the system operating in the Housing Assistance Payment scheme ( HAP) which 
removes the housing applicant from the Housing List , (as was the case in the older 
Rent Allowance scheme) as being totally discriminatory (notwithstanding the fact that 
he or she can apply for a transfer under certain rigid conditions) and places those not 
on the scheme in a much better position to be offered a council house even though 
they may not be on ‘the housing list’ as long”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and 
agreed by all present. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

21.4 

Cllr. David Hynes 

“I call on the Council to look again the method adopted by this Council regarding rates 
on properties uses  by charities  whereby the charities in question have to go to the 
Valuation Office to get a waiver to exempt  them for the proposes of paying rates. This 
is causing major concern to the bona fide charities in Wexford as many of the charities 
are being told they still have to pay”. 

This motion was deferred.  

21.5 

Cllr. John Fleming 

“This Council recommits itself to increasing awareness and understanding of mental 
health, the steps our citizens can take to protect their mental health, and the need for 
appropriate and accessible services for all people with mental health illnesses at all 
stages”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and 
agreed by all present.  

21.6 

Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“That Wexford County Council would seek to convene a joint meeting with Wicklow 
County Council and develop a joint campaign to improve east coast transport links”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and 
agreed by all present.  

21.7 

Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“That Wexford County Council explores the possibilities of developing Wexford into a 
world class Accessible Tourism Destination for All programme to foster sustainable, 
responsible and inclusive approaches to tourism development for the benefit of the 
County’s businesses, citizens and tourists”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and 
agreed by all present. 

21.8 

Cllr. Ger Carthy 

“I call on this Council to immediately reverse the decision of the executive not to gift a 
small area of land to the Irish Coastguard for the purpose of the construction of a new 
purpose built station in Kilmore Quay. This decision has put the entire project in 
jeopardy”.  

21.9 

Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That this Council is disappointed with the withdrawal of the offer on an agreed site in 
Kilmore Quay to the OPW for our Coast Guard (one of our 4 primary response 
agencies) and hereby directs Wexford County Council to re-engage with the Coast 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.05.18 

Guard and the OPW with the view to making the transfer of land as soon as 
practicable”. 

Motions 21.8 and 21.9 were taken together.  The Director of Services advised the 
meeting that he had visited Kilmore and looked at the sites available again and noted 
that there was a better site on the Council’s own property which would suit the 
proposed Coast Guard Station.   

Cllr. J. Moore advised that a Local Development Plan for Kilmore was being drafted at 
present and that the location of the Coast Guard Station should be looked at in the 
overall context of the Plan. 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive, welcomed the Coast Guard Reps to the meeting and 
advised that the Council wanted to try to help them to get a new Coast Guard Station.  
He advised that the site had issues and may not fit into the overall plan for Kilmore 
Village.  He asked that the Council sit down with the Coast Guard to discuss options to 
allow planning permission to be applied for.  It was noted that a formal Section 183 to 
transfer land would be required and this would require the approval of the Council. 

Following discussion, a motion to defer was proposed by Cllr. P. Kavanagh. However, 
this was not put to the meeting as the proposers of the motions both deferred their 
motions to allow for a further meeting of Borough District of Wexford to discuss the 
matter prior to the matter being brought back to the full Council in the form of a Section 
183 notice. 

22. Any Other Business   

None. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Meitheamh, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
