 County Council Meeting 09.12.19 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 9th December, 2019 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In The Chair: 

Councillor M. Sheehan 

Councillors:  

P. Barden; 
C. Byrne;  
A. Connick; 
J. Fleming; 
W. Kavanagh; 
G. Lawlor; 
B.A. Murphy;  
O. Walsh; 

M. Bell; 
P. Breen; 
G. Carthy;   J. Codd; 
D. Devereux; A. Donohoe;   
J. Hegarty; 
T. Forde; 
L. Kelly; 
D. Kenny; 
L. McDonald; J. Moore; 
J. O’Rourke;  F. Staples; 
M. Whelan. 

A. Browne; 
K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Laffan; 
B. Murphy; 
J. Sullivan; 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive. 
T. Larkin; E. Hore, J. Carley, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, Meetings Administrator; 

Apologies:   

Cllr’s.  J. Owens; F. O’ Súilleabháin; 

Recently elected TD for Wexford, Malcolm Byrne was also present at the meeting.   

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed Malcom Byrne to the Council Chamber as TD for 
County Wexford. He also paid tribute to all the candidates who had stood in the bye-election, 
including sitting members of the Council, Cllr. George Lawlor and Cllr. Jim Codd both of whom had 
contested the election.  Finally, he welcomed ex Councillor Declan MacPartlin to the meeting. 

Malcolm Byrne, TD, then addressed the Council.  He thanked the other candidates who stood in 
the bye-election and noted that the election had been fought on the issues. He went on to highlight 
the nature of the election process in Ireland and the huge impact it had on the candidate’s family 
and friends during election time. 

He then highlighted the importance of democracy and advised that he had enjoyed working for 
Wexford County Council and in particular the collegiate atmosphere that prevails in the Council.  
He noted that he would work with other TD’s in the same collegiate manner and will also be there 
for his Council colleagues if they needed help at a national scale. 

He noted that local government often gets a raw deal and that often means taking away the 
powers of members. However, he wanted to emphasise the 120 years of service that the County 
Council has provided for the people of Wexford and he hopes that this will continue.  As a TD he 
will fight to make sure that it does continue.   

He then gave sincere thanks to the Council staff, noting that his own father had worked for 
Wexford County Council for 40 years.  He acknowledged the professionalism of the staff which 
had been superb over the time he worked here.  He finally noted that if he could be of help to any 
of the Members of the Council or the executive of the Council that he would be available to do so. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.12.19 

The Chief Executive then joined in the congratulations noting that it had been an honour and a 
privilege to have had Malcolm Byrne as a Member of Wexford County Council.  He advised that 
Malcolm Byrne will certainly be an addition to national politics and he will take up Deputy Byrne’s 
offer of help and assistance in the future.  He also wished to congratulate Malcolm Byrne’s family 
and noted their support in the election campaign. 

Leaders of each of the political groups in the Council Chamber then joined the Cathaoirleach and 
the Chief Executive in congratulating Malcolm Byrne on his election as TD for Wexford and noted 
that they would work closely with him in the future. 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Shane Roche, Wexford who was associated with North End United Football Club. 
  The Hassett Browne family of Tagoat 
  The family of Sean Murphy, Castlebridge 
  The family of Larry Roche, Castlebridge 
  The family of Imelda Fanning, Colestown, Barntown 
  The family of June Roche, Corish Park, Wexford. 
  The family of John Howlin, former Revenue Collector with Wexford County Council 
  The family of Ita Dunbar, mother of Siobhan Dunbar, Local Charges Dept. Wexford County 

Council 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Rathgarogue/Cushinstown GAA Team who recently won the Leinster Club JFC final. 
  The officials of New Ross District for securing funding under the Fáilte Ireland Developed and 

Emerging Destination Towns Capital Investment Programme 2019 

  John Carley and Michael Sweeney for their help to the community in Craanford in achieving the 

2019 IPB Pride of Place Award 2019 

  Wexford County Council for their results in the Transparency Ireland survey of Local Authorities 
  Handballer Bobby Doyle of Traceystown 
  Pat Devereux for 42 years of service with WCC 
  Frank Staples thanked the Members and staff for their help fundraising for the Polar Plunge 
  Gorey 2019 – on winning the Leinster Regional Award at the National Enterprise Town Awards 
  WCC Arts Dept. on winning the Sustaining the Arts Award for their Arts Ability Programme in 

the recent Chambers Ireland Excellence in Local Government Awards. 

  Oylegate Vintage Club on their fundraising efforts for Pieta House 
  Kathleen O’ Connor and Anne McCreary, who were presented with a Swim Ireland Award from 
President Michael D. Higgins – both ladies have given 40 years’ service to Swim Week in 
Morriscastle 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 11th November, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan seconded by Cllr. J. Moore and agreed by all, the Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.12.19 

1.2 Statutory Budget Meeting – 25th November, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming and agreed by all, the Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Cllr. J. Moore advised that he had submitted a letter for discussion at the next Protocol Meeting 
and Director E. Taaffe advised him that the next Protocol meeting will be held early in the New 
Year. 

Cllr.  T.  Forde  advised  that  the  Vóta  Comhghairdeas  from  the  November  2019  minutes  was 
incorrect.  Alex  Currid  was  the  recipient  of  the  R.I.B.S.A.  U-16  Snooker  Ranking  Event  held  in 
Newbridge. The County Secretary agreed to amend the Minutes. 

2.   Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

2.1 LAC 1908 – proposed development to construct a 2 bedroom dwelling with all associated 
site works on a currently vacant site at Marconi Park, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

Having  considered  the  proposed  development  and  the  Chief  Executive’s Report in  relation  to 
same as circulated, on the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Members 
agreed that the development proceed as proposed. 

2.2 LAC 1909 – proposed construction of 36 no. dwellings along with associated site works at 
Rosetown, Rosslare, Co. Wexford.    

Having  considered  the  proposed  development  and  the  Chief  Executive’s Report in  relation  to 
same as circulated, on the proposal of Cllr. J. Codd seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor the Members 
agreed that the development proceed as proposed. 

Arising from the previous item on the agenda, Confirmation of the Minutes, Director of Services T. 
Larkin advised that all files in possession of Wexford County Council in respect of Anne Street will 
be made available to the OPW, if requested, and the Council will co-operate fully with any 
investigation that the OPW are carrying out. 

3. Draft Corporate Plan 2020-2024 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, advised that the Draft Corporate Plan is the overall strategy for 
the Council for the next five year period.  He advised that there had already been some 
amendments made to the Draft Plan and that any amendments made from today’s meeting will 
also be included.  At present it is only the basic document but there will be a professional 
document drawn up once agreed by the Council. 

The Draft Corporate Plan 2020-2024 was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty seconded by Cllr. J. 
O’Rourke and agreed by all. 

It was further agreed that the following amendments be made: 

  That a special mention be made for town centre development 
Increase the prominence of the Healthy County as an item 
 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.12.19 

  Marine Infrastructure should also be included as a headline item 
  On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy, it was agreed that the 

Council develop an Affordable Housing Strategic Policy as part of their work over the next 5 
years and that this be included in the Corporate Plan. 

4.  Audited Annual Financial Statement 2018 and Statutory Audit Report 

The Head of Finance advised that  Audited Annual Financial Statement 2018 and Statutory Audit 
Report, as presented, are the post audit accounts  and that there had been no changes from the 
previous document circulated to the Members. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  G.  Carthy  seconded  by  Cllr.  P.  Breen  and  agreed  by  all,  the  Members 
approved the Audited Annual Financial Statement 2018 and Statutory Audit Report. 

5.  Ratification of Ernest Levingstone to the Economic Development SPC (following the 

resignation of Eamonn Wall) 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and agreed by all. 

6.  Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group held on 2nd December 2019 was proposed by Cllr. A. 
Donohoe seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and agreed by all.  

7.  Chief Executive’s Report 

Cllr. A. Browne advised that funding had been withdrawn by Bord na gCon for the Enniscorthy 
Greyhound Track and this was a big loss to the local community. He proposed that the Council 
write to the Minister for Sport to restore the funding. 

Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, as the Chair of Enniscorthy Municipal District, advised that this is a serious 
situation for Wexford both on an economic and social basis and will have a huge impact on 
Enniscorthy.  On her proposal, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty, it was agreed that the Council invite 
the Management of the Track to meet with the Cathaoirleach and herself to bring the matter to the 
Minister. 

Cllr. J. O’Rourke noted that he lived close to the dog track in Enniscorthy and that a lot of local 
families will be affected by the closure.  He noted that it was an urban project outside of Dublin 
where funding was being reduced. 

It was agreed that the Council write to the Minister and Bord na gCon with regard to the loss of 
funding.  

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
including the following: 

  Update on a site for the University of the South East  
  Design update on Templeshannon Regeneration Project 
  Ban on smoky coals in County Wexford  
  Speed limit review for Mansfield Drive 
  Speed Limit Review in County Wexford 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.12.19 

  Start date for Trinity Wharf and traffic management plan for the construction of Trinity Wharf 
  Council’s approach to derelict sites and the use of CPO’s 
  Traffic management plan for Wexford Town to include the ring road 

At this point the Cathaoirleach suspended the meeting to make a presentation to two members 
of staff, Patricia Devereux and John Carley, who are retiring having given many years’ service 
to Wexford County Council. 

The Cathaoirleach congratulated Pat Devereux on her retirement and thanked her for over 40 
years of public service, in particular, her role in assisting and helping elected members of the 
Council. He praised her for her helpful, respectful manner and good humour and noted that she 
was held in high regard by the Members. Other Council members echoed the good wishes and 
compliments of the Cathaoirleach.  

The Chief Executive also thanked Pat Devereux, who also had a role as his Personal Assistant, 
for all her help since he had moved to Wexford County Council. He went on to wish her and her 
family health and happiness in her retirement. 

The Cathaoirleach then congratulated John Carley, who had worked in a number of Councils 
over a period of 38 years and had finished his career in his native Wexford. He highlighted the 
work John had done in his role as Director of Housing, meeting national targets in relation to 
housing and homelessness during a very difficult time for Housing service delivery.  

Other members joined with the Cathaoirleach in congratulating John Carley on his retirement 
and his work as Director of Housing, Community, Libraries, Arts Emergency Services and 
Environment. 

The Chief Executive then congratulated John Carley on his retirement and wished him, his wife 
Liz and his family every health and happiness in his retirement. He then thanked him for all the 
great work he had done for the Council since he was appointed Director 

The Cathaoirleach then made presentations to both retirees, each of whom made a short 
speech thanking the Councillors and Chief Executive for their kind words. 

Following the break, the Council reconvened and the following items were considered: 

  The Scurloguebush roundabout 
  Update on the Enniscorthy Tourism Project 
  Condition of the roads in the Taghmon area. 

At 16.30 Cllr. J. O’Rourke left the meeting  

8.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training 

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training was proposed by Cllr. J. Sullivan seconded by 
Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed by all.  

9. Minutes of Meetings: 

9.1 Enniscorthy Municipal District 21.10.19 

On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and approved. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.12.19 

9.2 Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District 15.10.19 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and approved. 

9.3 New Ross Municipal District 16.10.19 

On the proposal of Cllr. C. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming and approved. 

9.4 Wexford Borough District 21.10.19   

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan and approved. 

9.5 Rosslare Municipal District 21.10.19 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and approved. 

9.6 Transportation & Water Services SPC 28.03.19 

On the proposal of Cllr. W. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. A. Connick and approved. 

10. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted and approved on the proposal 
of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes.  

11. Correspondence and Communications 

  Acknowledgement from Minister Simon Harris regarding early intervention for mental health 

issues. 

  Acknowledgement from Minister Simon Harris regarding the Psychiatric Unit in Wexford 

General Hospital 

  Correspondence from the office of Minister Simon Coveney regarding the support of the 
Council for Border Communities against Brexit and opposition to any infrastructure or 
checkpoints at or near the border, following the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union. 

  Correspondence received from Senator Robbie Gallagher 

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the Members. 

Arising  from  the  correspondence,  a  number  of  Members  expressed  their  disappointment  with 
the replies received to motions raised by the Council, particularly in respect of health issues. 

Cllr.  T.  Forde  asked  that  a  sub-committee  for  mental  health  be  an  item  on  the  January  2020 
agenda 

12. Notices of Motion 

12.1 Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That this Council prepare a report as to best measures that can be taken to reduce the 
numbers of stray dogs in the County pound which has one of the highest number of stray dogs 
and dogs being euthanised in the Country. In the interim, and as a measure to stop the high 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.12.19 

level of dogs being euthanised,   this Council directs that the pound in Ballycarney to post 
photographs on its social media sites (to be set up and promoted if necessary) to increase the 
prospects of rehoming”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. F. Staples and agreed 
by all.  

12.2 Cllr. John Hegarty 

“In light of ongoing efforts to both offer leadership opportunities to younger people as well 
as encouraging participation in the democratic process and the workings of Wexford County 
Council, I propose that Wexford Junior Council (that was run so successfully in recent years) 
be reconvened with immediate effect. Furthermore, it should have a clearly defined work 
programme for the year to include a chance to debate and give feedback on current council 
projects, an opportunity to speak on occasions where the event is primarily targeted at young 
people and a symbolic chain of office for the chairperson”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by 
all.  

13. Any Other Business   

Cllr. L. Kelly asked about progress on the live streaming of the Council meetings and Director E. 
Taaffe advised him that the item will be on the agenda for the Protocol Committee meeting in 
January 2020.  

Cllr. T. Forde asked about the Democratic Programme which was to be erected in the Council 
Chamber. The County Secretary advised that the Democratic Programme will be erected in the 
New Year.   

Cllr. Forde also asked that all election posters be taken down. 

The Cathaoirleach then finished up the meeting by thanking the Members for the respect and 
courtesy shown to him during his time as Cathaoirleach and he also thanked the Press for their 
attendance at the meetings. 

He wished all the Members of the Council and Staff a Happy Christmas and peaceful New Year. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

Daingithe ar an 13ú la de Eanair, 2020. 

_______________________  
County Secretary 

________________________ 

Cathaoirleach 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
