 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 9th September, 2019 – 1.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In The Chair: 

Councillor M. Sheehan 

Councillors:  

P. Barden; 
C. Byrne;  
K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Laffan; 
B.A. Murphy;  
J. Owens; 
M. Whelan. 

P. Breen; 

M. Bell; 
M. Byrne;  G. Carthy;  
A. Connick;  D. Devereux;  
J. Fleming;  T. Forde; 
W. Kavanagh;L. Kelly; 
G. Lawlor; 
L. McDonald;  
B. Murphy;  J. O’Rourke;   
F. Staples;  J. Sullivan; 

A. Browne; 
J. Codd; 
A. Donohoe;   
J.Hegarty; 
D. Kenny; 
J. Moore; 
F. O’Súilleabháin; 
O. Walsh; 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive. 
T. Larkin; E. Hore, J. Carley, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, Meetings Administrator; 

1.  Presentation to Members – REVAL 2019 Publication of the Valuation List 

The Cathaoirleach welcomed John O’Sullivan, Commissioner for Valuations, who is making a 
presentation with regard to the REVAL 2019 for County Wexford.  The presentation had been 
circulated to the Members and the Commissioner went through the main points in his presentation.  

He advised the Members of a number of key dates. The final valuation certificates would be issued 
on 10th September 2019.  The Valuation List will be published on 17th September 2019.  The right 
of appeal to the Valuation Tribunal would be 28 days from 17th September and that the effective 
date for rates purposes is 1st January 2020. 

Following the Commissioner’s presentation there was a question and answers session and 
Members asked questions with regard to the REVAL of County Wexford including the following 
which were dealt with by the Commissioner for Valuations: 

  The number of properties in Wexford where the valuation has reduced 
  The number of people who have not yet received a response from the Valuation Office 
  The process with regard to revaluation of coastal buildings 
  The large valuation increases in some businesses in Enniscorthy 
  The rates treatment for charity shops 
  The fair and transparent system that was put in place by the Valuation Office 
 

It was noted that some premises which had not been revalued for many years could have 
experienced some increase 

  The basis for revaluation should be profitability 

The Cathaoirleach then thanked the Commissioner for his presentation and it was noted that the 
presentation was available to the Members on MinutePad.  

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

2.  Confirmation of Minutes 

2.1 County Council Meeting – 8th July, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by all, the Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

The Cathaoirleach then asked if there were any matters arising from the minutes and the following 
were discussed: 

  Concerns about the Tenancy Handbook which had issued recently 
  Update on the case regarding Martin Power - T. Larkin, Director of Services, advised that 
the Council has received a number of items from Mr. Power and that the Council has 
reviewed the documents and sent them on to our Law Agent for a response 

  Cllr. D. Hynes advised that the Chief State’s Solicitors Office and the OPW are conducting 

an investigation on the assembly of the Anne Street site and T. Larkin, Director of Services, 
advised that the Council will co-operate with any investigation. 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Saoirse Kennedy, grand-daughter of Robert Kennedy 
  The family of Sean Scallan, Corish Park, Wexford 
  The family of Margaret Foley, Clonroche 
  The family of Biddy Berry, Ferndale Park, Wexford 
  Cllr. J. Moore wished to commemorate the 22nd anniversary of the fatal shooting of Garda 

Gerry McCabe  

  The family of Tyler Murphy, Clonroche  
  The family of Markie Reck, father of Geraldine Carthy, Planning Dept and father in law of 

Gerardine Reck, Housing Dept. 

  The family of Donal Broaders, brother of Geraldine Broaders, Credit Control 
  The family of Padraig O’Gorman, father of Padraig O’Gorman, Housing Officer 
  The family of Emily Steacy, mother of Robert Steacy, GSS, Gorey Municipal District 
  The family of Sean Keeling, father of Alan Keeling, Housing Liaison Officer 
  The family of Noel Whelan, brother of Cllr. Michael Whelan – Cllr. M. Byrne noted the loss to 

the family and the people of Wexford.  He wished to acknowledge the contribution Noel Whelan 
had made to County Wexford and his influence and commitment to the Kennedy Summer 
School and passed his sympathy to Sinead and Seamus Whelan 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The organizers of the Kennedy Summer School 
  James Owens, who refereed the All Ireland Hurling Final 2019 
  Glynn Barntown GAA Club for their recent success 
  Faythe Harriers GAA Club for their recent success 
  Michelle O’Neill, who officiated at the UEFA Women’s World Cup Final and the recent Chelsea 

v Liverpool match  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

  Pat Sinnott who organised a Wexford v Waterford Legends Charity Hurling Match and raised 

€10,500 for the Little Blue Heroes Foundation for seriously ill children 

  The organizers of the Castlebridge Record Makers Festival  
  Craobh Loch Garman for organizing an Irish music event in the Irish National Heritage Park 

and to WCC for their support for that event. 

  The Environment Section for their Matress/Sofa Amnesty initiative mattresses. 
  John Murphy of Carrick on Bannow who  organised the Phil Murphy Weekend  

3. Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1 Proposed disposal of 51 Pondfields, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. A. Connick, the proposed disposal was 
agreed by the Council. 

3.2 Proposed disposal of 9 mts sq of land at Pig Market, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. J. Owens, the proposed disposal was 
agreed by the Council. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh items 4,5 and 6 which dealt with 
nomination to a number of boards and sub-committees were postponed to the October 2019 
meeting of the Council.  

7.  Ratification of PPN Representatives to Committees of Wexford County Council: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the Council ratified the PPN 
representatives to serve on the JPC and SPCs, details of which had been submitted by the 
PPN and circulated to the members of the Council. 

8.  Nominations to 2019 Audit Committee: 

Following consultation between the Chief Executive and the members of the CPG, the following 
nominees were recommended to fill the external seats on the Audit Committee: 

Ms. Madeleine Quirke, Rosslare Harbour 
Ms. Linda Doran, Enniscorthy 
Mr. Harry Reinhardt, New Ross 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by all, the three 
external members, as recommended, were formally appointed to the Audit Committee. 

9.  Local Election (Disclosure of Donations & Expenditure) Act 1999 – furnishing of 

Statements to Members: 

The County Secretary advised that a report had been circulated to the Members and that 
copies of the statements have been circulated to the Members.  This was noted by the Council. 

10. LPT Variation Decision: 

3 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance, had circulated a Discussion Paper in accordance with the 
Local Government Reform Act 2014.  The following requirements form part of the Annual 
Budget Process: 

  Making a decision of the Local Property Tax (LPT) Variation +/-15% by 30th Sept 2019 

and producing a preliminary Budget for 2020 by the end of September. 

The Head of Finance then went through the Discussion Paper in detail and also highlighting the 
public consultation process which had taken place over the summer. Five submissions were 
received from the public and the submissions were included in the Discussion Paper. 

She advised that the overall financial position of the Council is stable.  The Discussion Paper 
recommended that the Council should adopt a 10% increase in the LPT for 2020 which will see 
the LPT retained at the same level by County Wexford as the rate applied since the 2018 
financial year.  She then sought approval of the Members for this recommendation. 

The 10% increase in the Local Property Tax (LPT) for 2020 was then proposed by Cllr. M. 
Byrne seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by all. 

Cllr. F. O ‘Súilleabháin seconded by Cllr. T. Forde then made a proposal to leave the LPT at 
the base line rate and have no increase.  The Cathaoirleach then decided to take the original 
proposal first and advised that, if it were passed, the second proposal would fall automatically. 

Following a vote it was agreed by all Members to increase the LPT by 10% with Cllr. O’ 
Súilleabháin and Cllr. Forde voting against and Cllr. J. Codd abstaining. 

During the discussion on the LPT variation decision a person from the public gallery had 
approached a member of the Council with a letter. 

The Chief Executive advised the Council that this approach to a Member of the Council was in 
contravention of the rule for Members of the Public attending a public meeting of the Council.   

He advised the Members that the letter had been returned to the person who delivered it in the 
public gallery and he had been advised that he would be asked to leave if there was any further 
interference with the meeting.  

11. Budget 2020 – Proposed Meeting Dates: 

The Head of Finance had circulated a list of dates with regard to various parts of the 2020 
Budget to the Members and on the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the 
list as circulated was agreed. 

12. Rebuilding Ireland Home Loans (RIHL) Allocation 2018-2019 and associated borrowing 

requirements: 

The Head of Finance addressed the Members with regard to the report on the Rebuilding 
Ireland Home Loans which she had circulated earlier.  She advised that Wexford County 
Council had been allocated a sum of €15,922,084 for building loans in respect of 2018 and 
2019.  She stated that the Council had given approval for borrowing the bulk of this money at 
meetings in 2018 and 2019.   

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

In accordance with Section 106 of the Local Government Act approval of the Council was then 
sought for borrowing of €1,422,084 to fund the RIHL Programme for the remainder of 2019 and 
to align approvals to date with the consolidated allocations received. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the proposal for the borrowing of 
€1,422,084 was approved by the Members. 

13. Draft SPC Scheme 2019-2024: 

The County Secretary advised Members that the Draft SPC Scheme had been approved by the 
Council at their July 2019 meeting and had gone out to public consultation over the summer.  
The Council received five submissions with regard to the SPC Scheme. A synopsis of the 
submissions and recommendations had been circulated to the Members. 

Following discussion, it was proposed by Cllr. D. Devereux seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan 
and agreed by all that: 

  The Economic & Development SPC be increased by two extra Council Members.  
  The Planning & Development SPC be reduced by 3 Council Members.   

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. A. Connick, it was agreed that Cllr. L. 
McDonald would be appointed to the Housing & Community SPC.   

Following the amendments, Council representation on the five SPCs is as follows: 

Housing & Community   
Transport & Water Services 
Economic Development & Enterprise  
Planning & Building Control 
Environment & Climate Change 

8  
6 
9 
4 
7 

The SPC Scheme 2019-2024, as amended, was adopted on the proposal of Cllr. D. Devereux 
seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan.  

14. Draft Corporate Plan 2020-2024: 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, then presented the Draft Corporate Plan 2020-2024.  He 
advised that the plan had gone to public consultation over the summer and that five 
submissions had been received, all five of which can be accommodated within the Plan.   

It is now proposed to prepare a draft Plan which will be presented to the CPG and Council in 
November and December 2019 for approval.  This was approved on the proposal of Cllr. G. 
Carthy seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all. 

15. Annual Service Delivery Plan Q1 and Q2 2019: 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services advised that the Plan is for Q2 2019 and it contained  an 
extensive number of items  He advised that if any Members had queries they should contact 
his office.  The Q2 plan was proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and 
agreed by all.  

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

16. Consideration of Local Community Development Committee (LCDC) Annual Report 

2018:  

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that Mr G. Mackey, Chief Officer for the LCDC had 
circulated the LCDC Annual Report to the members of the Council. 

The Director also advised that Mr Mackey will now be taking up office in Enniscorthy Municipal 
District and that Amanda Byrne will take over his role in the Community Department.  Members 
then thanked Ger Mackey for his work and commitment to rural Wexford during his time 
working in the Community Department.  This was agreed by all. 

The Cathaoirleach noted that new staffs were coming back into the County Hall from the 
Districts and that new staff will be deployed to the Districts also. 

The members noted the LCDC Annual Report 2018. 

17. Report of Corporate Policy Group 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group held on 2nd September, 2019 was noted by the 
meeting. 

Cllr. B. A. Murphy referred to the QPR Training contained in the report and advised Members to 
attend.  She also advised that she had green ribbons to distribute to Members of the Council 
and Staff with regard to support for suicide prevention.  

18. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
including the following: 

  Update on New Ross Advance Factories 
  Updated position on John Street, New Ross 
  Up to date position on Michael Street, New Ross 
  Update on dredging programme on Crescent Quay, Wexford 
  Funding for Healthy Ireland and update with regard to the plan 
  Update on Curracloe Greenway 
  Thanks to Clinton Donovan and the clean-up crews of Wexford County Council on the 
clean ups carried out in various parts of Wexford - it was noted that there was a huge 
increase in illegal dumping in the county 

  Update on the construction of the first building in Enniscorthy Technology Park 
  Footpath from the new housing development in the Ballagh 
  Current position with regard to Seaview, Kilmore Quay 
  Coastguard station 
  Hedgecutting  
  Technician for the Rosslare District 
  Update on the Templeshannon Regeneration Project 
  Rolling out of the My Open Library to all parts of Wexford  
  Funding to reinstate roads around Oylegate 
  Gorey Market House 
  Biodiversity 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

  Flood plan for Enniscorthy 
  Schedule for works on side roads to the new motorway 
  Castle in New Ross District 
  New Ross Search and Rescue Update 

19. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training 

  Foreign Travel to China and Wales 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, advised that the Council had been invited to China and he 
recommended that a small delegation to include the Cathaoirleach, one Council Official and the 
Chair of the Economic SPC be approved.  Approval was also sought with regard to a trip to Wales 
in respect of the Ancient Connections Intereg Project for Ferns.   

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training and the invitation to attend China and Wales was 
proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming and agreed by all. 

20. Minutes of Meetings: 

20.1 Annual Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 17.06.19 
20.2 Gorey Municipal District 21.05.19 
20.3 Annual Meeting of Gorey Municipal District 18.06.19  
20.4 Annual Meeting of Enniscorthy Municipal District 14.06.19 
20.5 Enniscorthy Municipal District 20.05.19  
20.6 Annual Meeting of New Ross Municipal District 14.06.19 
20.7 New Ross Municipal District 08.05.19 
20.8 Annual Meeting of Rosslare Municipal District 19.06.19 

On the proposal of Cllr.  P. Breen seconded by Cllr.  A. Connick and agreed by Members present 
the Minutes outlined above were noted and approved. 

21. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted and approved. 

22. Correspondence and Communications 

  Correspondence  from  Minister  Simon  Harris  re  second  cat  lab  for  Waterford  University 

Hospital 

  Correspondence  from  Minister  Simon  Harris  concerning  the  interim  control  measures  the 

HSE have introduced with regard to recruitment of health sector staff 

  Correspondence from Minister Simon Harris concerning the Standing 4 Women* Campaign 
  Correspondence  from  Dept  of  Employment  Affairs  and  Social  Protection  in  relation  to 

pension provision for CE Supervisors and Assistant Supervisors 

  Correspondence  from  State  Examinations  Commission  in  relation  to  provision  for  student 

sitting leaving cert exams following a general anesthetic. 

  Correspondence from Simon Harris, TD, concerning GPs and FEMPI legislation. 
  Correspondence from National Monuments Service 
  Correspondence from Richard Bruton, TD, Minister for Communications, Climate Action and 

Environment regarding dog fouling. 

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the Members. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23. Notices of Motion 

23.1 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

“That Wexford County Council introduce special by laws that will return the speed limits on the 
former N11 roads from Clough to Camolin to Ferns to Enniscorthy and to Oylegate to 
100kmph. That the process for such by laws commence immediately with the objective of 
having the necessary changes in place by year end.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke and agreed 
by all.  

23.2 Cllr. David Hynes 

“This Council calls on the government to reverse the decision to cut €31.80 training allowance 
for people with disabilities. It is an attack on the most vulnerable in our society. This has been a 
huge benefit to such people in seeking to further their educational prospects and to make 
themselves feel more independent and less depended on society.  

The news that  thousands of students who received CAO offers recently  prepared to take up 
college courses in the coming weeks, a cohort of students with disabilities face having their 
Rehabilitative Training (RT) allowance axed next month. 

The weekly allowance of €31.80 aims to support progression to further education or 
employment”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell.  It was agreed 
to ask the government to reverse the cut to disabled persons and this was agreed by all.  

23.3 Cllr. Tom Forde 

“I ask that in building new playgrounds or regenerating existing playgrounds,  
Wexford County Council would introduce a policy of application of the Principles of Universal 
Design by installing a range of equipment which can be used by both able and less able bodied 
children.  In addition, that towards achieving universal design, Wexford County Council would 
begin a programme of retrofitting existing playgrounds with at least one item of play equipment 
specifically designed for inclusivity of all.” 

Cllr. T. Forde noted that this motion was already Council Policy. 

23.4 Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That this Council calls on the Government to immediately provide funding  to carry out an 
urgent traffic survey on the N11 from Rosslare Europort to Oylegate  with particular emphasis 
on alleviating the growing congestion at the roundabouts and slip roads  on that route and to 
thereafter immediately commit to provide the funding to deal with the upgrading required to 
ensure that all traffic can flow in light of the immediate threat of a no-deal Brexit”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by 
all.  

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

23.5 Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“As a means of generating new business and addressing vacant shops in key main commercial 
areas, that this Council requests the Economic SPC to investigate a tailored programme of rent 
discounts and/ or incentivised rebates to encourage new startups or develop a focused scheme 
whereby the Council rents and subleases prime located shops to a specific category of 
enterprise/ start up with clear time- phased discount and claw back provisions”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh and 
agreed by all.  

23.6 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“That Wexford County Council oppose any moves to remove responsibility for traveller 
accommodation from local authorities and communicate that concern to the Ministers for 
Housing and Local Government as well as the Dáil deputies for Wexford.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor.  It was agreed 
to write to the Minister for Housing and Local Government as well as the Dail Deputies for 
County Wexford.  

23.7 Cllr. David Hynes 

“This Council calls on the government to vote against  the  Mercosur  trade deal between the   
European Union  and  Bolsonaro's  Brazilian government. As this leader is a right wing oligarch 
only interested in exploiting the poor of Brazil (esp the indigenous people of the Amazon) and 
damage the environment. The deal will also put many of our own struggling Irish beef farmers 
out of business by allowing cheaper beef in to the country”.   

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed by all 
with the exception of Cllr. D. Devereux. 

23.8 Cllr. Tom Forde 

"I ask that Wexford County Council, as far as is feasible and possible, incorporate adequate 
cycling infrastructure as part of all upgrades and new roads projects in the future with the aim 
of improving road safety for all users and to connect the main zones of origin and destination 
within the county which should provide effective through-movement for cyclists." 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all. 

23.9 Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That this Council calls on Irish Ferries to reintroduce the French Ferry to sail from Rosslare 
Europort for the 2020 season and thereafter given the issues that arise  in light of a no deal 
Brexit”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes.  Cllr. C. 
Byrne proposed an addition to the motion to say that a delegation should now meet with Irish 
Ferries, this was agreed. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

The Chief Executive advised that he had met the Manager of Irish Ferries before the summer, 
who notified him that Irish Ferries keeps Rosslare Port under constant review. He was also of 
opinion that the move away from Rosslare to Dublin Port was not as popular as had been 
hoped.  

The Chief Executive suggested that WCC waits until the effects of Brexit are better known and 
understood before looking for a meeting with Irish Ferries.  

24. Any Other Business   

Cllr. M. Whelan asked that arising from the earlier incident whereby a Councillor had been 
approached by a member of the public from the public gallery that guests who attend at the 
Council Meeting be named at the outset and this matter should be dealt with by the Protocol 
Committee. 

Cllr. D. Kenny advised that local people were not notified regarding the recent Wexford Stages 
Motor Car Rally.  Mr E. Hore, Director of Services, advised that there is an official process for 
road rallies and that notices are published in the local paper. He understood that, in this case, 
the rally group had called to all houses.  Signs are also erected locally and alternative routes 
are normally made available. 

Cllr. M. Whelan congratulated James Stafford of Ballycullane who won the recent Wexford 
Stages Motor Car Rally. 

Cllr. O. Walsh raised the issue of Horse Racing Ireland and the impact of recent developments. 

Cllr. D. Hynes objected to naming names of members of the public in the public gallery. 

It was noted that the notifying the public about the Wexford Stages Motor Car Rally could be 
done on social media.   

It was agreed, following further complaints that the issue of persons attending Council meetings 
in the public gallery will be dealt with by the Protocol Committee. 

Cllr. Owens raised an issue regarding a child in Enniscorthy and the Director of Services j. 
Carley agreed to look at the merits of the case. 

Cllr. Owens also said the new sound system in Enniscorthy was a great addition to the 
graveyard and thanked the Council for providing same. 

Mr. E. Taaffe advised that the Draft Annual Report 2018 is almost complete and will be 
presented to the Members at the October 2019 Meeting of the Council.  

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 09.09.19 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

_______________________  
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an 9ú la de Deireadh Fómhair, 2019. 

________________________ 

Cathaoirleach 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
