First Annual Meeting 14.06.19 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Friday 14th June 2019 – 9.30 a.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

Councillors:  

P. Barden; 
C. Byrne;  
K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Laffan; 
B. Murphy; 
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

A. Browne; 
J. Codd; 

M. Bell; 
M. Byrne; 
A. Connick; 
J. Fleming; 
W. Kavanagh; 
G. Lawlor; 
F. O’ Súilleabháin;  J. O’Rourke;  J. Owens; 
J. Sullivan;  O. Walsh; 
F. Staples; 

P. Breen; 
G. Carthy; 
D. Devereux; A. Donohoe; 
T. Forde; 
L. Kelly; 
L. McDonald; B.A. Murphy;  

J. Hegarty; 
D. Kenny; 

Officials: 

Messrs: T. Enright, Chief Executive, 
T. Larkin, E. Hore, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, A/Director of Service; 
Mr. P. Collins, Meetings Administrator; 
Mr. David Minogue, Communications Officer. 
Ms A. McLaughlin, Administrative Officer, Corporate Services 

Apologies:   

Apologies for inability to attend were received from Cllr. J. Moore 

At the outset the outgoing Cathaoirleach Keith Doyle requested the County Secretary to 
read the list of Councillors elected to Wexford County Council following the Local Elections 
on 24th May 2019. 

Enniscorthy District - Aidan Browne, Cathal Byrne, Kathleen Codd Nolan, Barbara Anne 
Murphy, John O’Rourke, Jackser Owens. 

Gorey-Kilmuckridge  District  -    Pip  Breen,  Malcolm  Byrne,  Diarmuid  Devereux,  Anthony 
Donohoe,  Mary  Farrell,  Willie  Kavanagh,  Donal  Kenny,  Fionntán  OSúilleabháin,  Joe 
Sullivan, Oliver Walsh. 

New Ross District – Pat Barden, Anthony Connick, John Fleming, Bridin Murphy, Michael 
Sheehan, Michael Whelan. 

Rosslare District –  Ger Carthy, Jim Codd, Lisa McDonald, Jim Moore, Frank Staples. 

Wexford  District  –  Maura  Bell,  Tom  Forde,  John  Hegarty,  David  Hynes,  Leonard  Kelly, 
Garry Laffan, George Lawlor.  

The outgoing Chair then addressed the Council. He thanked the outgoing members for their 
service  to  the  previous  Council  and  welcomed  the  new  members.  He  also  thanked  the 
officials  of  Wexford  County  Council  and  referred  to  the  strong  relationship  between 
members and officials in Wexford County Council. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Annual Meeting 14.06.19 

He also stated that it was a great honour for him to have served the people of Wexford and 
Enniscorthy for 25 years, serving as Chairman of Enniscorthy on four occasions and then 
as  Cathaoirleach  of  Wexford  County  Council.  He  mentioned  a  number  of  highlights  that 
took  place  during  that  period,  including  the  Fleadh  Ceol,  the  Tour  de  France,  the  1798 
Commemoration and the 1916 Centenary Commemoration. 

Finally,  he  referred  to  the  Council’s  Economic  Programme  and  urged  the  new  Council  to 
make every effort to achieve what is laid out in the Programme.  

Members from all parties and independents then congratulated the outgoing Cathaoirleach 
on his 25 year of service and wished him well in the future. They acknowledged the service 
he had given and thanked him as a colleague and for his help and political advice over the 
years. Members also praised his fairness as Cathaoirleach, his integrity and his courage in 
officiating at today’s meeting.  

The  Chief  Executive  then  associated  himself  with  the  remarks  of  the  members,  again 
highlighting  the  outgoing  Cathaoirleach’s  25  years  year  of  service  and  his  commitment  to 
drive on with projects in Enniscorthy as set out in the Council’s Economic Programme. 

The outgoing Cathaoirleach then thanked all the speakers. 

1.  Election of Cathaoirleach: 

Cllr. M. Sheehan was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming and seconded by Cllr. P. Breen. 

Cllr. F. Staples was proposed by Cllr. O. Walsh and seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe. 

A poll was then taken. 

In Favour of Councillor M. Sheehan: 
Councillors:  P. Barden; M. Bell; P. Breen; A. Browne; M. Byrne; G. Carthy; A. Connick; M. 
Farrell;  J.  Fleming; W.  Kavanagh;  L.  Kelly;  D.  Kenny;  G.  Laffan;  G.  Lawlor;  L.  McDonald; 
B.A. Murphy; M. Sheehan; J. Sullivan; M. Whelan. 

In Favour of Councillor F. Staples: 
Councillors:  C. Byrne; K. Codd Nolan; D. Devereux; A. Donohoe; J. Hegarty; B. Murphy; F. 
Staples; O. Walsh.  

Abstentions: 
Councillors: J. Codd; T. Forde; D. Hynes; J. O’Rourke; F. Ó’ Súilleabháin; J. Owens;  

Following the vote of 19 votes to 8, with 6 Abstentions the outgoing Chairman Keith Doyle 
declared  that  Councillor  Michael  Sheehan  was  elected  Cathaoirleach  and  he  took  the 
Chair. 

The  Cathaoirleach  then  addressed  the  Council,  saying  that  it  was  a  great  honour  and 
privilege  to  be  elected  Chairman  of  the  new  Council.  He  thanked  his  proposer  and 
seconder and welcomed all the new members of the Council. He also thanked the families 
of all the elected members for their sacrifices, support and generosity. 

He outlined the Council’s priorities for the next five years, making particular reference to the 
opening of the two new by-passes in New Ross and Enniscorthy which will benefit County 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Annual Meeting 14.06.19 

Wexford,  bringing  both  Dublin  and  Cork  within  a  ninety  minute  journey  from Wexford.  He 
also  referred  to  the  completion  of  the  Economic  Plan,  the  Tourism  Strategy,  the  Local 
Economic and Community Plan, a new Development Plan and the 2040 Strategy.  

The Cathaoirleach also intends to set up Town Teams for Enniscorthy and New Ross and 
to  devise  a  Rural  Regeneration  Strategy.  He  would  also  like  to  continue  with  working 
groups established by the previous Council 

He then set out the projects which will come on-stream in New Ross, Enniscorthy Wexford 
and Gorey over the next twelve months, including the following: 

  Enterprise Centre, Barrack St., New Ross 
  John St. Grain Store Development, New Ross 
  Works on High Hill, New Ross 
  Extension to the New Ross Library 
  Replacement of the Fire Station in New Ross 
  Greenway from New Ross to Waterford 
  Removal of the oil tanks from the Quay in New Ross 
  Opening of the Enniscorthy Business Park 
  Progressing of the Trinity Wharf Development in Wexford 
  Utilising the Hatch Lab in Gorey as a model of best practice. 

Finally, the Cathaoirleach then asked the members to work together to improve the lives of 
the  people  of  County  Wexford  and  hoped  to  make  Wexford  an  Age  Friendly  county,  a 
disability  accessible  county,  an  autism  friendly  council  and  to  engage  meaningfully  with 
Comhairle na nÓg. 

The  Cathaoirleach’s  first  act  in  office  was  to  present  a  certificate  and  a  medal  to  the 
outgoing Cathaoirleach, Keith Doyle.  

1.  Election of Leas Cathaoirleach: 

Cllr. L. McDonald was proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor and seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy. 

Cllr. B. Murphy was proposed by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty. 

A poll was then taken. 

In Favour of Councillor L. McDonald: 
Councillors:  P. Barden; M. Bell; P. Breen; A. Browne; M. Byrne; G. Carthy; A. Connick; M. 
Farrell;  J.  Fleming; W.  Kavanagh;  L.  Kelly;  D.  Kenny;  G.  Laffan;  G.  Lawlor;  L.  McDonald; 
B.A. Murphy; M. Sheehan; J. Sullivan; M. Whelan. 

In Favour of Councillor B. Murphy: 
Councillors:  C. Byrne; K. Codd Nolan; D. Devereux; A. Donohoe; J. Hegarty; B. Murphy; F. 
Staples; O. Walsh.  

Abstentions: 
Councillors: J. Codd; T. Forde; D. Hynes; J. O’Rourke; F. Ó’ Súilleabháin; J. Owens;  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
First Annual Meeting 14.06.19 

Following the vote of 19 votes to 8, with 6 abstentions Cllr. L. McDonald was elected Leas-
Cathaoirleach. 

Cllr. L. McDonald addressed the Council following her election as Leas Cathaoirleach. She 
appealed to members of the Council to work together for the betterment of County Wexford. 
She  highlighted  a  number  of  projects  which  are  of  importance  to  the  development  of  the 
county over the next five years – the Oylegate to Rosslare Europort and the establishment 
of a third level institution in Wexford town and the need for better access to mental health 
services. 

The  Chief  Executive,  Tom  Enright,  then  congratulated  the  new  Cathaoirleach  and  Leas 
Cathaoirleach.  He  also  welcomed  all  of  the  councillors,  in  particular  those  newly  elected 
members taking up office for the first time. He noted that their election was a great honour 
and privilege, both to themselves and their families. 

The  Chief  Executive  looked  forward  to  working  with  the  new  Council  over  the  next  five 
years, which will be critical for County Wexford. He noted that the new bypasses will greatly 
enhance the Council’s connectivity and allow New Ross and Enniscorthy the opportunity for 
further development. 

He  welcomed  new  investment  in  Rosslare  Europort  and  Waterford  Airport.  He  also 
highlighted the challenges facing County Wexford as a result of Brexit. He also stated  that 
the  delivery  of  Council’s  Economic  and  Commercial  Development  Plan  will  require  strong 
leadership in the Council Chamber.  

He urged the Council to work together for the benefit of the county, which has been a long-
standing  tradition  in  Wexford  County  Council.  He  also  highlighted  the  good  working 
relationship between the executive and members.   

The Chief Executive concluded by announcing the new administrative arrangements for the 
five districts, together with staff changes required to administer the new districts. 

Members  representing  the  political  parties  and  Independent  members  then  congratulated 
the new Cathaoirleach and Leas Cathaoirleach on their appointments and wished them well 
in their new roles. 

2.  Appointments 

Chair-designate for SPCs: 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy it was agreed that a fifth SPC 
would be set up to deal with Environment & Climate Change. 

Following this change, the SPC structure is: 

Housing & Community SPC 
Transport & Water Services 
Economic Development & Enterprise  
Planning & Building Control 
Environment & Climate Change 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. F. Staples the following were proposed 
as Chairs of the SPC’s: 

Councillors Joe Sullivan; Mary Farrell; Pip Breen; Malcolm Byrne; John Hegarty. 

First Annual Meeting 14.06.19 

The Chairs of the SPCs are as follows: 

Housing & Community SPC  
Cllr. J. Sullivan 
Cllr. P. Breen 
Transport & Water Services 
Economic Development & Enterprise  Cllr. M. Byrne  
Cllr. J. Hegarty 
Planning & Building Control 
Cllr. M. Farrell 
Environment & Climate Change 

Protocol Committee: 

Cllrs. M. Byrne; B.A. Murphy, G. Lawlor; A. Donohoe; J. Moore and T. Forde were proposed 
by Cllr. M. Byrne and seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by all.  

Local Traveller (Accommodation) Consultative Committee: 

Cllrs. W. Kavanagh; L. Kelly; K. Codd Nolan; T. Forde; J. Owens were proposed by Cllr. M. 
Byrne and seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by all. 

 Audit Committee: 

Cllrs.  J.  Sullivan  and  A.  Connick  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  A. 
Connick and agreed by all. 
Environmental Monitoring Committee: 

Cllrs. W. Kavanagh and D. Kenny were proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne and seconded by Cllr. 
M. Bell and agreed by all.  

Local Community Development Committee: 

Cllrs. L. McDonald; A. Browne; L. Kelly and A. Donohoe were proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne 
seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed by all.  

Joint Policing Committee: 

Cllrs. M. Whelan; G. Laffan;  B.A. Murphy; P. Breen; J. Sullivan, A. Browne; F. Staples; B. 
Murphy;  J.  Hegarty,  G.  Lawlor;  G.  Carthy;  P.  Barden;  J.  O’Rourke;  F.  OSúilleabháin;  J. 
Codd were proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by all.  

Rural Water Monitoring Committee: 

Cllrs.  D.  Kenny;  M.  Whelan;  M.  Farrell;  D.  Devereux;  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne 
seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed by all.  

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sports Active Wexford: 

Cllr. G. Laffan was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed by 
all. 

First Annual Meeting 14.06.19 

Regional Assembly: 

Cllrs. P. Breen, M. Bell and O. Walsh were proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. 
Lawlor and agreed by all.  

Irish Public Bodies Mutual Insurances: 

Cllr. G. Lawlor was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by 
all.  

Education and Training Boards: 

Cllr. F. O’ Súilleabháin was proposed by a group comprising 5 members as follows – Cllrs 
T. Forde; D. Hynes; F. O’ Súilleabháin; J. O’Rourke; J. Owens and was deemed elected. 

Cllrs.  A.  Browne,  B.A.  Murphy;  G.  Laffan;  M.  Farrell;  L.  Kelly  and  K.  Codd  Nolan  were 
proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by all.  

LAMA: 

Cllr. M. Whelan was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed by all.  

South East River Basin District Advisory Council: 

Cllr. M. Farrell was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. A. Connick and agreed by 
all. 

Regional Health Forum (South): 

Cllrs.  W.  Kavanagh;  D.  Kenny;  P.  Barden;  F.  Staples  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne 
seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by all.  

Association Irish Local Government: 

Cllrs. M. Byrne; W. Kavanagh and A. Connick were  proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded 
by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed by all.  

County Wexford Drugs and Alcohol Task Force: 

Cllr. D. Hynes was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by 
all.  

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Annual Meeting 14.06.19 

South Eastern Drugs and Alcohol Task Force: 

Cllr. P. Barden was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by 
all. 

3 Counties Energy Agency: 

Cllr. G. Carthy was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by 
all. 

Age Friendly Alliance: 

It was agreed that The Cathaoirleach would be nominated. 

Wexford Heritage Trust Ltd: 

Cllrs.  B.  A.  Murphy  and  G.  Laffan  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  A. 
Browne and agreed by all. 

Hook Heritage Ltd: 

Cllrs.  M.  Whelan  and  P.  Barden  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  A. 
Connick and agreed by all.  

Courtown Waterworld: 

Cllrs. J. Sullivan and M. Farrell were proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. M. Bell 
and agreed by all. 

Wexford Monument Trust Ltd: 

Cllr. P. Barden was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. A. Connick.  

Ferrybank Swimming Pool and Leisure Centre: 

Cllrs.  D.  Hynes  and  M.  Bell  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  and  seconded  by  Cllr.  G. 
Carthy. 

The Cathaoirleach then welcomed Minister Paul Kehoe to the meeting. 

3.  Municipal Districts: 

The appointments to be made by the Municipal Districts were noted by the meeting.  

4.  Schedule of County Council Meetings: 

The Schedule of Meetings, as circulated was agreed on the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy 
seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Fixing Dates for First Meetings of Municpal Districts: 

The following were proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. A. Connick and agreed by 
all.  

First Annual Meeting 14.06.19 

  Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District – 18th June @ 2.30 p.m.   
  New Ross Municipal District –.14th June @ 3.30 p.m.   
  Enniscorthy Municipal District – 14th June @ 4p.m. 
  Wexford Borough District – 17th June @ 7.00 p.m. 
  Rosslare Municipal District – 19th June @ 2.30 p.m. 

6.  Standing Orders 

  Amend Section 63 to include the 5th District of Rosslare 
  Amend Section 63 to change Gorey District to Gorey-Kilmuckridge District 
  Amend  Section  55  to  take  account  of  the  new  Strategic  Policy  Committee  and 

changes to existing Strategic Policy Committees. 

The above amendments were proposed by Cllr. M. Farrell seconded by Cllr. A. Connick. 

7.  Induction Training for Elected Members: 

The  Cathaoirleach  advised  Members  that  AILG  Training  for  Elected  Members  will  take 
place at Horse & Jockey Hotel, Co. Tipperary on 13th July 2019, 

The  same  training  course  will  also  take  place  at  Mullingar  Park  Hotel,  Co. Westmeath  on 
11th July 2019 

Discussion  then  took  place  on  the  need  for  certainty  for  the  new  Rosslare  District  with 
regard to staffing, location and funding. 

The Cathaoirleach thanked the Members for their help in dealing with the appointments and 
the other business of the Annual Meeting. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

Daingithe ar an 8ú la de Iúil, 2019. 

_______________________  
County Secretary 

________________________ 

Cathaoirleach 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
