 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 13th May, 2019 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

G. Carthy; 
P. Breen; 
M. Doyle 
T. Dempsey;   
J. Fleming;    
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton; 
D. Hynes; 
L. McDonald;  
G. Lawlor;  
M. Murphy; 
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 
J. Sullivan;  

K. Codd Nolan; 
A. Donohoe;   
T. Forde;  
P. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien;  
M. Sheehan;  
T. Walsh;  

A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
J. Hegarty; 
W. Kavanagh;   
B.A. Murphy;  
J. O’Rourke; 
F. Staples;                
M. Whelan. 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services;  
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance & ICT; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary;  
Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing  

Apologies:   

Councillor M. Byrne;  

At the outset, the Cathaoirleach advised the meeting that a Civic Reception was to be held 
in  the  Council  Chamber  at  5.30  p.m.  and  that  he  expected  that  the  meeting  would  be 
finished in time for the Civic Reception. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 8th April, 2019  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed by all, the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Denis Collins, brother of Pat Collins, County Secretary 
  The family of David Spencer, brother of Andy Spencer, Planning Dept. 
  The family of John Jordon, former General Operative and brother in law of Cllr. Willie 

Kavanagh 

1 

 
 
                                                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The family of Billy Courtney, The Ballagh, Co. Wexford, former employee of Wexford 

 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

Co. Council 

  The family of Ciaran Cave, Mulrankin, Co. Wexford. 
  The family of Billy O’Connor, Lr. Southknock, New Ross 
  The family of Jason O’Leary, Wexford 
  The family of David Kirwan, Enniscorthy 
  The family of Nancy Walsh, Bishopswater, Wexford  
  The family of Colin Fleming, Gorey 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The All Blacks who won the “Billy Browne” Cup. 
  Michael Dunbar of Kilrush Drama Group, who won the “Best Actor” award at the RTE 

All-Ireland Drama Finals. 

  Civic Award Winners in New Ross 
  The Executive Team and Members who helped various groups in New Ross 
  The Enniscorthy Rugby Club who won the Provincial Towns Cup and promotion to 

Division 1B 

  Naoise Hennessey, Craanford, who won the Texaco Children’s Art Competition 
  Mayglass National School who won a 5 a side final for the second year in a row 
  Staff of LEO for their Young Entrepreneurial Event 
  Cllr. B.A. Murphy advised that May 2019 is designated as “Green Ribbon” month - the 

objective of Green Ribbon is to remove the stigma around mental health and to 
promote people to have positive views with mental health issues.  She asked the 
Members to wear the green ribbon which had been circulated earlier.  Cllr. D. Hynes 
supported this initiative. 

2.  Annual Financial Statement 2018 and Annual Financial Report 

The AFS 2018 and the Annual Financial Report were presented by Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of 
Finance.  Both documents had been circulated and the Head of Finance highlighted the 
main points in each of the reports under the following headings: 

1.  Income and Expenditure Account 
2.  Performance against Budget 
3.  Capital Account  
4.  Fixed Assets  
5.  Indebtedness 
6.  Income 
7.  Other Matters  

In particular, she referred to the Revenue Account surplus for 2018 of €1,003,563 - this is 
the fifth year in a row that the Council has had a surplus at the end of the financial year, 
ending 2018 with an overall Revenue Account deficit of €3.770m. 

She also advised that in 2018 the Council had received €1.2m in funding from the 
Department in respect of works carried out during Storm Emma.  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

Under the accounting Code of Practice for Local Authorities and in accordance with FRS 
102, the Council is obliged to report contingent liabilities – in this regard, the Head of 
Finance referred in her report to the potential liability associated with the agreement 
entered into in respect of a road development at Ballynagee, Killeens.  

This matter had been included in the 2017 AFS and will remain in the accounts until the 
matter has been resolved. In 2018, an additional note has been added to recognise the 
potential liabilities that may fall to Wexford County Council as a result of the transfer of the 
state company “New Ross Port” to the Council. 

The Head of Finance informed members that there was overspend in a number of areas 
and that this required the approval of the Members. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke the Council approved 
the overspend shown on Page 9 of the Report in accordance with Section 104 of the Local 
Government Act 2001, as amended; the Council also considered and approved the Annual 
Financial Statement 2018. 

3.  Rebuilding Ireland Home Loan Borrowing Requirement 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance, presented a short report with regard to the Rebuilding 
Ireland Home Loan Borrowing Requirement.  She sought the approval of the Council to 
borrow €7.5m to fund the 2019 Housing Mortgage Programme. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan it was agreed to 
approve the borrowing of  €7.5m. 

4.  Scheme of Priority for Affordable Dwelling Purchase Arrangements 

The Scheme of Priority was presented by Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing.  He sought 
approval for the Draft Letting Scheme by the County Council and advised that matters of 
detail to be included in the scheme will be a matter for the new Council. 

Following discussion and a number of questions which were answered by the Housing 
Officer, the scheme was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty and 
agreed by all. 

5.  Analysis of Performance Indicators 2017  

The report had been circulated to the Members of the Council.  Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of 
Services, advised that if Members had any individual queries they could forward them onto 
him for response. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the report was 
adopted. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

6.  Local Elections Update 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, advised that he would be the Returning Officer for the 
forthcoming Local Elections which would take place in St. Joseph’s Club in Wexford.  He 
also notified the Members that notice had been sent to all election candidates regarding 
the Count Centre. 

He notified the meeting of an error which had occurred in the postal votes in the ballot for 
New Ross LEA with regard to the order of candidates on the original ballot paper.  He 
advised the Members over 50% of the incorrect ballot papers had been retrieved at this 
stage. He further advised that the Council will be reissuing the correct ballot papers over 
the next few days and that arrangements would be made for the retrieval of any other 
papers outstanding.  

Finally he advised that the Annual Meeting of the Council will take place on 14th June 
2019. 

The Director advised the meeting that the issuing of tickets for the opening of the boxes in 
County Hall is a matter for the European Returning Officer.  A number of Members 
expressed concerns about the non-ticketing of the opening of the boxes in County Hall and 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services advised that he would bring their concerns to the 
European Returning Officer, Marie Garahy.  

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan it was agreed that the 
Councillors access card for the County Hall could be used to allow Councillors access to 
the Count Centre in St. Joseph’s. 

7.  Report of Corporate Policy Group. 

The Report of the Corporate Policy Group of 13th May 2019 was proposed by Cllr. M. 
Sheehan seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien and noted by the meeting.  

8.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members. The Chief Executive and 
members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the 
Report, including the following: 

  The Town and Village Renewal Scheme 
  The Ratable Valuation System 
  An update on Terrerath Castle 
  Sewerage Scheme for Fethard on Sea 
  Parking facilities for motor homes 
  Special Needs Car Parking 
  Vacant Houses in Ballycullane 
  Update on recent funding for Waterford Airport 
  Change of bye-laws to deal with dog fouling 
  Access to bank buildings for disabled persons 
  Draft Strategic Regional Plan 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

  Use of Courtown Hotel as a direct provision centre 
  Online petition regarding the Market House in Gorey 
  The resurfacing of the N80 from Bunclody to Clohamon 
  The extension of the River Walk in Enniscorthy 
  Road Safety review for Kilrane National School 
  The climbing lane at Ferrycarrig Bridge to Kyle Cross 
  The updating of the derelict sites register 

9.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes 
seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen and agreed by all. 

The Members also noted the following reports: 

  Report of Cllr. G. Lawlor on delegation to Fleures, Belgium. 
  Report on visit to London Wexford Association Annual Dinner Dance. 

10. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. D. Hynes, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh, and agreed by all the 
Members present, the following minutes were noted and approved: 

10.1 Borough District of Wexford 19.03.19 
10.2 Gorey Municipal District 19.03.19 
10.3 Enniscorthy Municipal District 25.03.19 
10.4 New Ross Municipal District 13.03.19 
10.5 Economic Development SPC 04.03.19 
10.6 Economic Development SPC 23.01.19 

11. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted by the Members. 

12. Correspondence and Communications 

The correspondence outlined below was noted by the Members: 

  Correspondence from Private Secretary to Minister Katherine Zappone concerning 

Adoptee Identity Rights 

  Acknowledgement from Minister Simon Harris concerning HSE recruitment ban 
  Acknowledgement  from  Minister  Simon  Harris  concerning  the  National  Children’s 

Hospital 

  Acknowledgement from Minister Simon Harris concerning GP’s FEMPI legislation 
  Acknowledgment  from  Private  Secretary  to  Minister  Ross  regarding  the  use  of 

penalty points for illegal parking 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Correspondence  from  the  Pension  Policy  Unit  in  relation  to  the  State  pension 

provision 

 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

13. Deferred Notices of Motion: 

13.1 Cllr. David Hynes: 

“That this Council considers in view of the many housing applicants, that the Council is 
not  in  a  position  to  provide  a  social  house  for  at  present,  would  therefore  develop  a 
more direct link with letting agencies to find out what accommodations are available to 
rent  within  the  HAP  income  guidelines  and  as  far  as  possible  which  landlords  will 
accept  HAP.  As  many  applicants  are  under  severe  pressure  and  are  often  stressed 
trying to find a suitable place to rent”. 

The  above  motion  was  proposed  by  Cllr.  D.  Hynes  seconded  by  Cllr.  T.  Walsh  and 
agreed by all. 

13.2 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne: 

“That Wexford County Council amends our County Development Plan to permit the 
construction of log cabins or other structures for housing for a defined period and that 
the appropriate amendment and regulations be presented at the April meeting of the 
Council”. 

The above motion was withdrawn as Cllr. M. Byrne was not in attendance.  

13.3 Cllr. David Hynes: 

“That this Council calls on the government to reverse the decision by revenue to 
impose VAT at 23% on Food supplements from health stores”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. T. Walsh and 
agreed by all. 

13.4 Cllr. Michael Sheehan: 

“That Wexford County Council Housing section will review its transfer policy of current 
tenants and consider accepting transfer applications on the grounds of unresolved 
antisocial behaviour as legitimate reasons for requesting a move”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan but not seconded so therefore 
the motion fell. 

13.5 Cllr. Fionntán ÓSúilleabháin 

"In the event of a no-deal Brexit, Wexford County Council will back the growing calls for 
an All-Ireland Border Poll, as enshrined under the terms of the Good Friday 
Agreement". 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen 
and agreed by all. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

13.6 Cllr. David Hynes: 

“This Council calls on the relevant Minister or administrators of the HAP scheme to 
cover the 4 weeks rent in advance that some landlords are demanding from new 
tenants along with the deposit”. 

The above motion was withdrawn by Cllr. Hynes. 

13.7 Cllrs: George Lawlor; Malcolm Byrne; John Hegarty 
“That Wexford County Council, in view of the damage that spiraling insurance costs are 
causing to community groups, voluntary organisations, charities and small business, 
calls on the Government to accelerate its insurance reform programme.  In particular, 
Wexford County Council calls on the Government to urgently recalibrate the Book of 
Quantum to reflect international norms, immediately establish a distinct Insurance 
Fraud Unit within an Garda Síochána and quantify the benefits to policyholders of the 
reforms currently being implemented.”  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty and 
agreed by all.  

13.8 Cllr. Tony Dempsey 

“Due to the loss of jobs and the probability of further job losses in the Leisure and Play-
activity centres in Wexford, that representatives of Wexford Co Co and the Leisure/Play 
activity centres seek an immediate Meeting with Minister Darcy. 

The purpose of this Meeting 

1. To discuss with Minister Darcy the problems faced by the Leisure/Play activity 
industry resulting from cost of Insurance and unavailability of Insurance. 

2. To ask Minister Darcy to arrange a Meeting with Minister Charles Flanagan with 
same reps to discuss their concerns re current legislation and impact of same on the 
Industry”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Dempsey seconded by Cllr. T. Walsh.  It 
was agreed that only Part 2 of the motion refers. 

13.9 Cllr. John Fleming 

“That Wexford County Council calls on the minister for employment affairs and social 
protection not to link pensions to an inflation index.  A lot of County Wexford 
pensioners who receive the state pension struggle at or below the poverty line and 
these measures if introduced would lock these pensioners in to poverty”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and 
agreed by all. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

13.10 Cllr. Pip Breen 

“That Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for Health Simon Harris and the 
HSE to fast track the provision of a second cat lab for Waterford University Hospital 
and stop using outdated figures and discredited reports to deprive the people of 
Southeastern region of this badly needed second cat lab”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. P. Breen seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and 
agreed by all.  

13.11 Cllr. John Fleming 

“That Wexford County Council: 
  calls on the Minister to amend current legislation in order to increase the minimum 

litter fine to €500 

  brings in a “name and shame” policy in relation to detected litter offences”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and 
agreed by all.  It was noted that a change of legislation would be required to bring in a 
name and shame policy. 

14. Notices of Motion 

14.1Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That Wexford County Council calls on the Government to incentivise both the set up 
and the continuance of small businesses in the villages of rural Ireland”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and 
agreed by all. 

14.2 Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That Wexford County Council calls on the Government and Irish Water to transfer 
back to Local Government in its totality the management and completion of water 
services connections”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and 
agreed by all.  

14.3 

Cllr. Marie Doyle 

“That this Council noting the recent Cervical Check Scandal, calls upon the Minister for 
Health, the Taoiseach to acknowledge, support and respond in detail to the demands 
of the Standing 4 Women* Campaign. These include Legislation and policy on 
mandatory open disclosure independent of the patient safety bill, provision of a start 
and end date and full disclosure on the 1800 smears yet to be audited, breakdown of 
the new packages being negotiated laboratories carrying out smear slide analysis 
including mandatory site audits”. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Doyle seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and 
agreed by all.  

14.4 

Cllr. John Hegarty 

“While recognising the many responsible dog owners, in our county, there remains an 
ongoing problem of dog fouling on certain stretches of footpath, public parks and other 
community facilities. In light of the significant difficulties for our wardens trying to 
prosecute those responsible, WCC now proposes that it is an offence for anyone to be 
found in a public place without a plastic bag to clean up after their dog”.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and 
agreed by all.  

14.5 

Cllr. Martin Murphy 

“Call on the Government to deliver on a 2008 Labour Court ruling to provide pension 
entitlement to supervisors on Community Employment schemes in the state. The 
Government's inaction on the 2008 decision is totally undermining the Labour Court 
and causing hardship to supervisors that made no alternative arrangements on foot of 
this historical Court decision”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Murphy seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen and 
agreed by all. 

15. Any Other Business  

The Cathaoirleach then invited the three Councillors, who had announced that they 
were retiring, to address the Council.   

Firstly, Cllr. T. Dempsey congratulated the Council on its work over the last 5 years and 
stated that his experience working with colleagues was inspirational.  The Council 
members put the welfare of Wexford ahead of their own political agenda and he 
highlighted the closeness of the executive and members of the Council.  He praised the 
Chief Executive Tom Enright as a great leader and the staff of Wexford County Council 
as providing services above the call of duty. 

Cllr. M. Murphy said it was a great honour to be elected by his peers to the Council.  
He felt that he was the representative of the local people and the link between the 
members of the community and local government  He enjoyed the experience and 
enjoyed representing people and dealing with the issues facing them in their 
communities. He had tried to do something about the issues to help both individuals 
and the wider community.   

He thanked the top table and the urgency and integrity of the Chief Executive and the 
Directors and former Directors.  He hoped all the Members running in the upcoming 
local elections would be re-elected. Finally, he thanked Cllr. K. Doyle, Chairman and 
previous Chairmen for the way they had carried out their duties - no meeting ended in 
disarray and that was all thanks to the Chairman. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

Cllr. L. O’Brien noted that he was the longest serving Member of the Council.  He had 
served for 28 years and had worked with a large number of Councillors over that time. 
He thanked the Chief Executive, Tom Enright, calling him a “bright light” for County 
Wexford.  He also thanked Eamonn Hore, Director in New Ross and the staff of 
Wexford County Council who had been most helpful to him over the years.   

To all the elected members, he noted that he had got on well with most of them and he 
hoped that they would all get re-elected.  He wished Oisin O’Connell who had retired 
earlier in the year well in his retirement and he noted that he had served with many 
great people over the years.  His one wish on retirement was that when elected the 
new Councillors would work together as a group for the good of the County. 

On behalf of the Fine Gael party Cllr. P. Kavanagh gave a sincere thanks to each of the 
three retiring Councillors; he noted that it was the end of their distinguished careers 
and that they were going out with their heads held high and going out at the top.  They 
had all contributed a lot to the Council and County Wexford.  He wished all three health 
and happiness in their retirement. 

On behalf of the Fianna Fail party Cllr. B.A. Murphy wished the retiring members good 
luck in their retirement; they will miss the company and the banter, but they should all 
be proud of their contribution to the Council. She also noted the importance of support 
among the members for each other. 

Cllr. J. Mythen, on behalf of the Sinn Fein party, wished the three retiring members all 
the best and praised each of them for the qualities they had brought to the Council. 

Cllr. T. Walsh, on behalf of the Solidarity-People Before Profit, emphasised the human 
element of each of the retirees. He enjoyed working with them and wished them well in 
their retirement. 

Cllr. G. Lawlor, on behalf of the Labour Party, highlighted the decades of service the 
three retiring members had given to the Council. They were all men of the community 
and he wished them well in their retirement. He looked forward to meeting them 
socially in the future. 

The Cathaoirleach, Cllr. K. Doyle then extended his best wishes to the three retiring 
members, noting that year of experience and level-headedness will be lost to the 
Council. He thanked them for their years of service to the Council. Finally, he wished all 
of the other members the best of luck in the forthcoming elections. 

The Chief Executive, Tom Enright, then addressed the meeting, stating that today’s 
meeting was the end of a chapter of the Wexford County Council history book. He 
thanked the Cathaoirleach on his term as chair of the Council, a role which he filled 
with great dignity. 

He paid tribute to the three retiring Councillors. He noted that Cllr. Larry O’Brien is the 
longest  serving  member  of  the  Council  –  he  has  been  a  member  of Wexford  County 
Council  since  1991.  The  Chief  Executive  referred  to  Cllr.  O’  Brien  as  the  “hero  of 
Zeebruge” recalling his actions on board the Herald of the Free Enterprise ferry where 
he aided the rescue of many passengers.  

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.05.19 

Cllr. O’ Brien served as Chairman of Wexford County Council and New Ross Municipal 
District;  he  also  served  as  Chairman  of  the  South  Eastern  Regional  Authority  and  as 
Chairman  of the  Hook  Heritage  Lighthouse Committee for the  last  10  years when  we 
took  over the  running  of  the  building  and  turned  it  into  a  tourism  hotspot  for the  New 
Ross area. 

He  is  also  Chairman  of  Horeswood  GAA  Club  for  the  last  5  years.  He  served  on  the 
county board for eight years.  

The  Chief  Executive  then  paid  tribute  to  outgoing  Fianna  Fail  Councillor,  Tony 
Dempsey.  Having  previously  served  as  a  T.D.  for  Wexford,  he  was  elected  to  the 
Council  in  2009  and  served  with  distinction  since  that  time,  holding  the  offices  of 
Cathaoirleach and Mayor of Wexford.  

The  Chief  Executive  also  highlighted  Cllr.  Dempsey’s  involvement  and  love  of  the 
G.A.A He had been appointed chairman of Wexford County Board in 1976 and he had 
been involved with inter-county hurling and Gaelic football teams in Wexford either as a 
trainer,  selector  or  manager  and  served  as  manager  of  the  Wexford  Senior  Hurling 
team.  

Finally, the Chief Executive paid tribute to Independent Councillor, Martin Murphy, who 
was  co-opted  to  the  Council  in  2007  and  subsequently  elected  in  the  2009  and  2014 
Local  Elections.  Cllr.  Murphy  served  as  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Management  of 
Hook Lighthouse and was a very popular and hardworking councillor for the people  of 
Fethard and Saltmills.  He had worked in the lighthouse services for many years. 

To  conclude,  the  Chief  Executive  thanked  the  outgoing  members  for  all  of  their  hard 
work,  commitment  and  support  over  the  past  five  years  and  wished  them  well  in  the 
forthcoming local elections. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Iúil, 2019. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
