County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 9th July, 2018 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
T. Forde; 
D. Hynes; 
J. Moore; 
L. McDonald;  
M. Sheehan;  
T. Walsh; 

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton;  
B.A. Murphy;  
L. O’Brien;  
J. O’Rourke;   
M. Whelan. 

K. Codd-Nolan;  
G. Carthy; 
M. Farrell; 
A. Donohoe;   
J. Hegarty; 
J. Fleming;    
W. Kavanagh;   
P. Kavanagh; 
M. Murphy; 
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 
J. Sullivan;  

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services;  
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. T. Banville, A/Director of Services; 
Mr. G. Forde, Senior Engineer, Environment Department; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  

Apologies:   

Councillors G. Lawlor; O. O’Connell; F. Staples. 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 

At  the  outset  the  Cathaoirleach  welcomed  Members  of  Ógra  Fianna  Fail  who  were 
attending  the  meeting.  He  also  welcomed  the  previous  County  Council  Cathaoirligh  who 
were  attending  for  a  presentation  and  Kevin  Sharkey  who  is  seeking  a  Presidential 
nomination. 

1.  Presentation to honour former Cathaoirligh of Wexford County Council  

Following  on  from  the  recent  presentations  to  previous  Chairpersons  of Wexford  County 
Council a number of presentations were made to former Chairpersons or their family who 
were  unable  to  attend  the  first  event.    The  presentations  were  made  by  Cllr.  K.  Doyle, 
Cathaoirleach, to the following: 

  EP Foley                             (John Foley and Ken Foley - Grandsons) 
  JJ O’Byrne                          (John O’Byrne - Great Grandson) 
  Michael Doyle                  
  Michael Kinsella 
  Peter Byrne  
  Hugh Byrne 

(Joe Funge - Grandson) 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

2.  Kevin Sharkey will attend the meeting regarding Presidential nomination 

Mr.  Kevin  Sharkey  addressed  the  Council  with  regard  to  his  bid  for  a  nomination  for  the 
upcoming presidential election.  He set out his background in Donegal and growing up with 
adopted parents in Ireland.  He set out his own characteristics and various areas that he 
had  been  involved  in  over  his  lifetime  including  his  experience  in  growing  up  in  care  in 
Ireland.   He  also outlined a  number of areas  which  he  had a  particular interest  including 
immigration and the loss of identity of Irish people, his love of Irishness and Irish culture. 

Mr.  Sharkey  responded  to  questions  raised  by  members  of  the  Council  following  his 
presentation.  A  number  of  Members  commended  his  bravery  in  standing  for  the  election 
and wished him well. 

The Cathaoirleach thanked Mr. Sharkey for his presentation and wished him well in his bid 
to  obtain  a  nomination  for  the  presidency.    It  was  agreed  that  the  Presidential  Election 
nomination would be put on the September 2018 agenda. 

3.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

3.1  County Council Meeting – 11th June, 2018. 
3.2  Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council – 18th June, 2018. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  B.  A.  Murphy  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  and  agreed  by  all  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Peg Dempsey mother of Cllr. Mary Farrell 
  The  family  of  Katie  Moran  -  mother  of  Catriona  O’Sullivan,  Credit  Control, 
granny of Aishling Doyle, Personnel and mother-in-law of Mary Moran, Internal 
Audit. 

  The family of Dympnha Doyle – sister of Eric Lawlor, GP 
  The  family  of  Margaret  (Peggy)  Doyle  –  mother  of  Bernie  Doyle,  Housing 

Department. 

  The family of Tony Hayden, Glynn 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The  organisers  and  those  involved  in  the  recent  Pipe  Band  Competition  in  New 

Ross 

  The organisers and those involved in the Fitness Festival in New Ross 
  The Chieftain of the Day Event 
  Limerick County Council for granting the Freedom of Limerick to the McCabe family 

to mark the 22nd anniversary of the shooting of Garda McCabe in Limerick. 

  All County Teams who took part in the recent Feile  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

  The rescue services in Duncannon who rescued a number of people who got into 

difficulty while swimming 

  Wexford Hurling Team for their recent win over Westmeath 

4.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

4.1 Proposed disposal of site at Esmonde Road, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 
4.2 Proposed disposal of site at St. Aidans Crescent, Wexford. 
4.3 Proposed transfer of land at Ballynagee, Wexford.  

The  Chief  Executive  clarified a  number of  issues  raised  by  Councillors  with  regard  to 
the Section 183’s.  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen, the proposed disposals, 
as submitted to the meeting, were approved. 

5.  NOAC Performance Indicator Report 2016 – Analysis Report 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the report was 
approved by the Members. 

Cllr. M. Byrne asked that the quality of responses to Councillors in the Members Query 
System be reviewed in 2018 as part of Performance Indicators. 

Cllr. J. Mythen asked that the figures for homeless people include children. 

6.  WCC Waste Presentation Draft Bye-Laws  

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, had previously circulated a copy of the “Waste 
Presentation Bye-Laws“ to the Members. The document set out the main points of the 
draft bye-laws which are being introduced to give more powers to the County Council 
to deal with issues of illegal dumping and to encourage the correct segregation of 
waste.   

A debate ensued on the issue of illegal dumping and littering throughout the county to 
which many of the Members contributed.  Among the issues raised were the following: 

 
 
 
 

the enforcement and the speed of cases brought to court,  
increasing the fine for fly tipping,  
the responsibility for disposal of refuse,  
the data protection issues regarding the issuing of names and addresses of 
persons who have been involved in littering and fly tipping,  
the low levels of fines handed out for litter pollution,  

the use of mobile CCTV to combat illegal dumping,  
the compliance of all waste collectors with regard to the 3 bin service,  

 
  group collection schemes within housing estates,  
 
 
  cleaning of sheds and dumping,  
 
 
  adding the price of the bin to the rent for Local Authority tenants,  
 

the operation of the rapid response unit,  
the doubling of resources on the ground,  

the closure of the Council’s landfill has led to dumping in rural areas,  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

  good work being done by community groups to reduce littering,  
 
 

the number of court cases pending and the slowness of the process. 
the need for legislation to cover the data protection issues and the naming and 
shaming of offenders,  
the increase of fines and the extra finance from national funds to deal with illegal 
dumping and littering,  
incentivise the general public to take photos and supply names and addresses 
of those engaged in fly tipping,  
treble fines for fly tipping,  

 
  queries regarding the number of fines issued by Wexford County Council for 

 

 

littering and fly tipping last year,  

  bins overflowing in the towns,  
  need for pooper scoopers at beaches,  
  privatisation of the refuse service,  
 
 
  1500 clean ups carried out by WCC last year. 

increasing property tax to cover the cost of cleaning the county,  
the closing of laneways to address the issue of illegal dumping,  

Following a lengthy discussion, the Draft Wexford County Council (Segregation, 
Storage and Presentation of Household and Commercial Waste)Bye-Laws 2018 were 
approved by the Members on the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. P. Breen 
and agreed by all. The Draft Bye-Laws will now be the subject of a period of public 
consultation during which time members of the public and interested parties may make 
submissions to Wexford County Council concerning the draft bye-laws. 

7.  Annual Service Delivery Plan 2018 Quarter 2   

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, advised that the quarterly Annual Service Delivery Plan 
sets out the progress on a wide range of projects/objectives by departments of WCC - the 
results for Quarter 2  are shown on the document circulated to the Members. He advised 
that due to the large number of items in the plan that if Members had particular questions 
that they could email his office and that they would be dealt with.    

The Members noted the Quarter 2 results.  

8.  OPW Flood Risk Management Plan 

Mr.  E.  Hore,  Director  of  Services,  advised  that  the  Plan  contained  details  of  funding 
allocated  to  towns  in  County Wexford,  including  an  allocation  of  €9m  for Wexford  Town, 
and an extra €1.5m for New Ross.  The Enniscorthy Flood Defence Scheme is included in 
the Plan.  

On the proposal of Cllr. L. O’Brien seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the Plan was adopted by 
Wexford County Council. 

9.  Consideration of PPN Nominees to the LCDC 

In  a  letter  to  members,  which  had  previously  been  circulated,  Mr.  J.  Carley,  Director  of 
Services,  recommended  a  number  of  nominees  to  the  LCDC  for  the  Members 
consideration. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

Cllr. K. Codd Nolan in her role as the Chair of the LCDC thanked the outgoing community 
members for their hard work over a number of years.   

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  G.  Carthy  seconded  by  Cllr.  T.  Dempsey  the  recommended 
nominees were approved.  

10. Draft LCDC Annual Report 2017 for consideration and approval  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Draft LCDC Annual 
Report 2017 was approved by the Members.  

11. Report of Corporate Policy Group  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell the Report of Corporate 
Policy Group of 2nd July, 2018 was approved by the meeting.  

12. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
including the following: 

  The inclusion of the boundary revisions for County Wexford and the administrative 
concerns  arising  from  the  new  Districts  to  be  dealt  with  at  the  September  2018 
County Council Meeting as an agenda item 

  On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh it was agreed that 
while the Council accepts the Boundary Commission recommendations the Council 
should write to Minister JP Phelan regarding their concerns as Members in relation 
to the boundary extension were ignored. 
  Fire problems arising from the dry weather 
  Meeting with Ministers 
  The need for clearer maps of the new electoral area 
  Targets for WCC with regard to solar farms 
  Meeting 3rd Housing Summit with Minister Murphy 
  The Council’s housing programme 
  Camper vans blocking coastal views in scenic places in County Wexford. 

Cllr. J. Fleming left the meeting at 4.35 p.m. 

  Congratulations to the Fire Staff for their training in regard to community resilience 

and fire safety in Kilmuckridge 

  Water  shortages  and  clarity  from  Irish  Water  regarding  the  water  services  on  the 

ground in the current dry spell 

  The urban regeneration programme 
  Jet skis problem in Courtown 

Cllr. M. Whelan left the meeting at 4.50 p.m. 

  Prioritisation  by  Irish  Water  of  the  provision  of  water  to  old  persons  homes  and 

hospitals  

5 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

13.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

The  list  of  Councillors’  Conferences  and  Training  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  L.  O’Brien  and 
seconded by Cllr. W. Fitzharris. 

  Report on 3 day delegation visit to Savannah in May 2018 – this was noted by the 

meeting 

  Approval to attend 5th Open Government Partnership Global Summit from July 17-

19 in Tbilisi, Georgia – this was approved by the meeting 

  Consideration for deputation from Gorey Municipal District to attend Gmina Puck, 

Poland – this was approved by the Members 

14. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick, and agreed by all the 
Members present, the following minutes were noted and approved: 

14.1 Gorey Municipal District Meeting 15.05.18 
14.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 09.05.18 
14.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 21.05.18 
14.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 21.05.18 

15. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was proposed by Cllr. L. O’Brien 
seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan.  

16. Correspondence and Communications 

The County Secretary advised that the Council had received a letter from the Special 
Olympics seeking a Civic Reception to celebrate their success at the recent Special 
Olympics.  This was agreed on the proposal of Cllr. T. Walsh seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne. 

The County Secretary advised that the Hungarian Ambassador will be visiting Wexford on 
Monday 16th July 2018 and it was agreed that he would be afforded a civic reception. 

17. Deferred Notice of Motion: 

17.1 Cllr. Tom Forde 

“I call on this Council to write to Minister of State for Defence, Paul Kehoe, to express 
disappointment and frustration regarding the purchase and upgrade of UVA's  (drones) 
from an Israeli company. And to request that the Department stop purchasing these 
weapons systems and all forms of military equipment from Israeli companies as they are 
live tested on civilians by a state that has killed many unarmed protesters, including 
children, journalists and doctors”. 

Cllr. Forde advised that he wished the wording to remain as he had originally proposed - 
the motion was then passed following a vote. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

18. Notices of Motion: 

18.1 Cllr. Tom Forde 
"In light of the recent resignations of psychiatrists, amid claims that their positions are 
untenable and unsafe, and claims that Wexford may be left without psychiatric services for 
children, this Council requests an emergency cross party meeting with the HSE to discuss 
this as a matter of urgency as well as the future of mental health services in the South 
East" 

Proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen.  A wide ranging discussion took 
place on mental health issues in County Wexford.  Following the discussion the motion 
was passed; it was also agreed that Chris Walsh be asked to meet with the Council and 
also that a meeting take place with Aileen McCauley.  The following members of the 
Council were nominated to a cross party group to meet with the Minister – The 
Cathaoirleach Cllr. K. Doyle, Councillors W. Kavanagh, W. Fitzharris, G. Carthy, T. Walsh, 
D. Hynes, J. Mythen and R. Ireton. 

18.2 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 
“Noting the planned national growth in population over the next two decades and the 
increasingly competitive global economy as well as existing challenges in housing, health, 
transport, education and other areas, Wexford County Council calls on the Minister for 
Finance, in October’s Budget, to use any additional available resources to the State to 
invest in infrastructure that will meet current challenges as well as future opportunities.” 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. T. Dempsey and agreed by all. 

18.3 Cllr. John Fleming, Chair of Housing, Community & Environment SPC 
“That this Council call on the Minister to review the loan to value ratio of 90% under the 
Rebuilding Ireland Home Loan, for construction loans where the applicant(s) owns their 
own unencumbered site.  This Council believes, such applicants should be considered for 
a maximum of 100% of the construction costs subject to meeting the affordability and 
eligibility criteria, as the site would represent a minimum of 10% equity”. 

This motion was deferred as Cllr. Fleming was not in attendance.  

18.4 Cllr. Jim Moore 
“Wexford County Council submits the names of the two elected members of the Council 
for inclusion in the Governments National Commemoration ceremony later in 2018. 

Cllr Thomas L Esmonde, Enniscorthy was duly elected to WCC in 1911 and also served 
as Chairman of Wexford Committee of Agriculture. 

Also Cllr John S Hearn, member of New Ross Urban Council and duly elected to WCC in 
1908.  Both men perished when the Royal Mail steamer "Leinster" sank on October 10th 
1918 with the loss of over 500 lives” 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh and agreed by all. 

18.5 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 
“Wexford County Council calls for first aid training to be provided as part of the driving test 
process”.  

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

Proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh. Following the approval of the 
motion it was agreed to write to the Department of Transport asking that the cost not be 
passed onto the applicant.  

18.6 Cllr. Fionntán ÓSúilleabháin: 

"Wexford County Council notes the lack of funding for the maintenance and re-
construction of much of our rural road network. It further notes this year’s NOAC report 
which highlighted the need for such re-construction. As we contribute a higher than 
average percentage of our own funding towards roads works this council calls on the 
Department of Local Government to allow local authorities such as ours to keep a higher 
percentage of our road tax income towards such works. (We further ask for this motion to 
be circulated to all local authorities) 

Proposed by Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin seconded by Cllr. T. Forde.  Following discussion it 
was agreed that this motion would be reworded and dealt with at the September 2018 
Meeting of the Council.  

18.7 Councillors Fionntán ÓSúilleabháin, Johnny Mythen, Michael Roche, Oisín 
O’Connell, Tom Forde 
"We ask that proposals for reduced speed limits will be put in place across Co. Wexford’s 
housing estates by summer 2019" 

Proposed by Sinn Fein Councillors seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes.  Mr. E. Hore, Director of 
Services, advised that a commitment had been given to deal with signage in 300 problem 
estates which had been identified by Members of the Council, members of the public or 
through other channels.   

The balance of the estates roughly numbering 700 will be reviewed by the summer of 2019 
by a set of criteria and signage will be put in the appropriate estates following that review.  
It was agreed that the motion would be amended to say that “we ask that proposals for 
reduced speed limits will be put in place across Co. Wexford’s housing estates by summer 
2019 as resources allow”.  This was agreed by all.  

18.8 Cllr. Johnny Mythen 
“That this council calls on a representative of Iarnrod Eireann to address this Council ,on 
the current and future plans of the rail link between Gorey and Rosslare and the plans they 
have for the future development of the port. Taking into consideration the cancelling of the 
winter services by the Oscar Wilde Ferry to Cherburg and Roscoff and have they got a 
concrete plan for Rosslare Euro Port, Post Brexit”. 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Mythen seconded by Cllr. M. Roche.  The Chief Executive advised the 
meeting that there is much greater focus by Irish Rail needed in Rosslare.  He advised that 
there are a number of challenges not least that Irish Rail will stop running the line if coastal 
protection to protect the rail line is not carried out and this is the biggest issue regarding 
the railway line.   

He also noted that it is important for the south east and the whole country that a proper 
plan for the future development of the port is put in place.  A similar plan is also required 
for New Ross as the south east needs property functioning ports.  He further advised that 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a consultant’s report is due to be released shortly and will be put forward for consideration 
at either September or October 2018 meeting of the Council. 

County Council Meeting 09.07.18 

The motion was agreed by the Members.   

19. Any Other Business   

None.  

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Meán Fómhair, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
