 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 13th January, 2020 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In The Chair: 

Cllr.  M. Sheehan, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors:  

M. Bell 
G. Carthy 
D. Devereux   
T. Forde 
L. Kelly 
L. McDonald   
J. O’Rourke   
J. Sullivan 

P. Breen 
J. Codd 
A. Donohoe   
J. Hegarty; 
D. Kenny 
J. Moore 
F. Ó Súilleabháin 
O. Walsh 

A. Browne 
K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell 
D. Hynes 
G. Laffan 
B. Murphy 
J. Owens 
M. Whelan 

C. Byrne 
A. Connick 
J. Fleming 
W. Kavanagh
G. Lawlor 
B.A. Murphy 
F. Staples; 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive. 
T. Larkin, E. Hore, C. Godkin, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, Meetings Administrator; 

1.  Presentation to the Council – Comhairle na nÓg 

The Cathaoirleach welcomed Paula Kelly, Co-ordinator of Comhairle na nÓg and a delegation 
from Comhairle na nÓg comprising Conor Brennan, Amy White and Matthew Colgan.  

The delegation made a presentation to the Council on the subjects of self-harm and   
suicide prevention as it impacts on young people. They had examined and taken action on a 
number of themes associated with these issues.   

Among the actions they had done was the distribution of posters, brochures and other 
information, a social media campaign and a setting up of Teentalk, an out of hours counselling 
service run through the FDYS. They noted that the counselling service required funding in 
order to continue.   

The presentation was well received by the Council and the Members complimented Comhairle 
na nÓg on the work they had done and congratulated them for their confidence in making their 
presentation to the Council.  

The delegation thanked the Council for their positive feedback. 

Ms. A. Byrne, SEO, Community Section noted the positive partnership the Council enjoys with 
the FDYS and advised that Comhairle na nÓg should submit a formal letter to Wexford County 
Council concerning funding and other supports.  

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Presentation to the Council – Centre of excellence in high performance buildings 

 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services advised that the full presentation had been circulated to the 
Members of the Council and that he would give a synopsis of the main points contained in the 
presentation.  

The Director advised that Enniscorthy has been designated a UN Centre of Excellence on 
Nearly Zero Energy Building. (NZEB).  Under the UN programme there is a network of Centres 
of Excellence which are a model of best practice with regards to energy saving.  

Mr. Larkin advised that Wexford County Council was ahead of its counterparts across the globe 
when it came to provision of NZEB social housing. Effectively the techniques used in building 
and heating of local authority social housing are leading to a large reduction in the costs of 
heating for local authority tenants.  

The County Council is collaborating with the WWETB to train people in the techniques required 
to achieve these improvements in the building and heating of houses.  Funding in setting up the 
Centre of Excellence will be provided by Wexford County Council initially with applications for 
funding from Climate Action Fund to follow.  

The Members congratulated the Chief Executive and Director of Services for this initiative and 
highlighted the improvements in the cost of home heating, health improvements, fuel poverty 
and problems such as dampness and mould.  The opportunity for workers in the building trades 
to upskill at the Centre of Excellence was also highlighted.  

Following this discussion, on the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and 
agreed by all that the Council would support the Centre of Excellence in working to achieve 
high performance buildings.  

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Margaret Breen, Ballymoney, Gorey, Co. Wexford. 
  The families of Joe Sinnott, Kilmore Quay and William Whelan Fethard-on Sea. Thanks were 
also extended to the Emergency Services and volunteers for their efforts in dealing with the 
tragic sinking of the fishing vessel, “Alize” 

  The family of Kathleen Greene, Clonroche, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford 
  The family of Peter (Pete) Walsh, Grange, Bannow, Co. Wexford. 
  The family of Terry McDonald, Adamstown, Co. Wexford 
  The family of Stephen (Dan) Dunne, Macmine, Bree, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford 
  The family of David Whelan, Monamolin, Gorey, Co. Wexford 
  The family of Mary Doyle, St. Aidan’s Villas, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 
  The family of Joseph (Joe) Breen, Duffry Gate, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 
  The family of Kathleen Anderson, Mount Carmel, New Ross, Co. Wexford (daughter of ex-

Councillor, Denis North) 

  The family of Mr. Ned Fenlon, stepfather of Ann Marie Laffan, Community Section 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The Cathaoirleach and Deputy Cathaoirleach of WCC for their refusal to attend at RIC 

Commemoration. 

  Rathgarogue -Cushenstown GAA Club for winning the All Ireland Junior Football semi-final 
  The Wolfe Tones for their number 1 hit, the proceeds of which will be given to the 

homeless. 

  The Chief Executive, Eamonn Hore, Director of Services and all those involved in New 

Ross Bypass which is due to open shortly.  

  Tánaiste for his work in re-establishing the executive in Northern Ireland. 
  Planning Staff in Wexford County Council for being nominated for a  LAMA Environmental 

awards for their Wex Bee Aware and Community Pollinator Education projects. 

3.  Confirmation of Minutes  

3..1County Council Meeting - 9th December, 2019 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Connick seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke and agreed by all the  
Council approved the minutes of the Council meeting held on 9th December 2019.  

4.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001 

4.1.1   Proposed disposal of property – 25 Woodbine Close, New Ross, Co. Wexford.  
4.1.2   Proposed disposal of lands at Beak, Kilmore Quay, Co. Wexford.  

 On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy the proposed disposals were 
agreed by the Council.  

5.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

5.1 LAC 1911 Proposed development involves the provision of a new roundabout at 
Ballygillane Little, Rosslare Harbour, Co. Wexford.  

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan LAC 1911 as presented was 
agreed by the Council.  

5.2 LAC1910 – Proposed alterations, extensions, partial demolition & external works to 
Wexford Arts Centre.  The Arts Centre is a protected structure (RPS NO. WBC0055). The 
proposed development sits close to the Old Town Wall, which is a national monument.  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly LAC 1910 as presented was 
agreed by the Council.  

6  Nomination of Chair to the Economic Development & Enterprise SPC (following the 

resignation of Malcolm Byrne) 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan seconded by Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by all, Cllr. M. 
Whelan was nominated to the Chair of the Economic Development & Enterprise SPC.  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

7  Ratification of Martin Reading as PPN Environmental Representative to LCDC 

replacing Karin Dubsky 

Following the recommendation of the Protocol Committee, on the proposal of Cllr. BA 
Murphy, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed by all Martin Reading was ratified as a 
member of the LCDC.  

8  Ratification of Jer O’Mahony as Farming Pillar Representative to LCDC replacing 

John Joe Kavanagh 

Following the recommendation of the Protocol Committee, on the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, 
seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed by all Cllr. Jer O’Mahony was ratified as a 
member of the LCDC.  

9  Nominations to Mental Health Sub-Committee (to be administered by the Housing & 

Community Department) 

The following were nominated to serve on the Mental Health Sub-Committee: 

Cllr. W. Kavanagh, proposed by Cllr. G. Laffan and seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy 
Cllr. F. Staples, proposed by Cllr. J. Moore and seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne 
Cllr. D. Hynes, proposed by Cllr. J. O’ Rourke and seconded by Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin 
Cllr. J. Owens, proposed by Cllr. J. Codd and seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes 
Cllr. L. Kelly, proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes and seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell 
Cllr. B. Murphy, proposed by Cllr. O. Walsh and seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe 
Cllr. T. Forde, proposed by Cllr. Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin and seconded by Cllr. J. Codd 
Cllr. G. Lawlor, proposed by Cllr. G. Carthy and seconded by Cllr. A. Connick 

10  Extension of Courtown Local Area Plan 

Mr. T. Larkin then advised the meeting of the process required to extend the Courtown 
Local Area Plan, which has the support of the Gorey Municipal District. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. Cllr. F. Ó Súilleabháin, and agreed 
by all, a request was made to the Chief Executive to furnish a report, prepared pursuant to 
Section 19(1)(e)(ii) of the Planning & Development Act 2000 (as amended), on the 
appropriateness of extending the duration of Courtown and Riverchapel Local Area Plan 
2015. 

The Chief Executive’s Report on the Extension of the duration of the Courtown and 
Riverchapel Local Area Plan 2015 had been circulated to the members in anticipation of this 
request. 

The Chief Executive’s Report was then considered by the Council. On the proposal of Cllr. 
P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and agreed by all, it was agreed to defer the sending 
of notices under Section 20(3)(a)(ii) of the Planning & Development Act 2000 (as amended) 
by a period of 5 years, thereby extending the duration of the Courtown and Riverchapel 
Local Area Plan 2015. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

11  2019 Q4 Annual Service Delivery Plan 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services then presented the 2019 Q4 Annual Service Delivery 
Plan, which had been previously circulated to members. He advised the meeting that any 
questions in relation to the Plan should be emailed to his office.  

A number of queries were raised. Cllr. D. Devereux sought clarification about number of 
people with disabilities working in Wexford County Council. Mr. E. Taaffe advised that the 
number of staff with disabilities employed by Wexford County Council is slightly above 3% 
of the workforce.  

Cllr. J. Hegarty raised an issue with regard to speed limit bylaws. Mr. E. Hore, Director of 
Services advised the bylaws will be finalised by next month.  

Cllr. G. Carthy sought a report back to council regarding Headquarters for Rosslare 
Municipal District and the Chief Executive agreed that he would bring a report back to 
Municipal District by March 2020. 

12  Reporting of political donations by elected members for noting 

The County Secretary advised the meeting that forms for Political Donations had been 
circulated to members and are due to be completed and returned by 31st January, 2020.  

He also advised that Declarations of Interest (Ethics Register) has been circulated and 
completed documentation is to be returned by 28th February, 2020. 

Cllr. J. O’Rourke left the meeting at 4.00pm. 

13  Chief Executive Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members. The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the Report 
including the following:  

Invest Wexford Networking Event held recently in Enniscorthy 

  Update on Market House, Gorey 
 
  Quality of water from Fardystown, Mayglass supply 
  Pumping sewerage from Lady’s Island to Rosslare Harbour 
  Update on New Ross Port 
  Update on New Ross Advance Factory 
  Update on fire damaged house in Ballycullane 
  Provision of services in Park 
Inclusion of Homeless figures in Chief Executive Report 
 
  Support for Companies and Businesses facing into Brexit 
  Chimney Fires in County Wexford 
  Removal of Oil Tanks in New Ross 

Cllr. T. Forde left the meeting at 4.40pm.  

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

Illegal Camping in Courtown 
 
  Condition of water in Rosslare 
  Sewage system going into Neamstown 
  Homeless figures published recently in the National press 
  Air quality monitoring in Schools 
  Monitoring of waste and litter in Maudlintown 
 
  County Development Plan – growth of villages in County Wexford 
  Public consultation by Carlow County Council with regard to new wind turbines on the 

Illegal dumping – power to enquire how people dispose of their rubbish.  

border of Carlow and Wexford.  

  Hard water devices for houses in Ard Uisce Council houses 
  Homeless addresses – An Post 
  Congratulations to Carolyne Godkin on her new appointment. 
  Date for opening of Min Ryan Park and skateboard park 
 
  Murphy Floods Hotel 
  Houses on Ross Road, Enniscorthy 

Investment in Rosslare Harbour post Brexit 

Cllr. J. Owens left the meeting.  

  Update regarding Storm Brendan 
  Expansion of School Traffic Warden Service 
  Tenders for new Fire Station in New Ross 
  Update consumption of intoxicating liquor bye-laws 

14  List of Councillors Conferences and Training 

The list of Councillor Conferences and Training, as circulated, was proposed by Cllr. B. Murphy 
seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by all.  

The members also noted the conference reports submitted by Cllr. G. Laffan, Cllr. G. Lawlor, 
Cllr. J. Fleming, Cllr. C. Byrne and Cllr. P. Breen.  

15  Minutes of Meetings 

15.1 Rosslare Municipal District – 18.11.2019 
15.2 Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District – 19.11.2019 
15.3 New Ross Municipal District – 13.11.2019 
15.4 Wexford Borough District – 18.11.2019 
15.5 Enniscorthy Municipal District 18.11.2019 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell seconded by  Cllr. J. Fleming and agreed by all, the above 
minutes, as circulated, were noted and approved.  

16  Sealing of documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted and approved. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

17  Correspondence and Communications 

  Acknowledgement from Office of the Minister of State Andrew Doyle re: Enniscorthy 

Greyhound Stadium Funding 

  Acknowledgement from Office of Private Secretary to Minister Ross regarding Enniscorthy 

Greyhound Track 

  Email from Simon Harris, Minister for Health regarding Mental Health Services in County 

Wexford 

  Email from Private Secretary to Eoghan Murphy, Minister for Housing, Planning and and 

Local Government regarding Traveller Accommodation 

  Email from Private Secretary to the Minister for Finance and Public Expenditure and Reform 

regarding insurance reform 

  Email from Minister for Health’s Office concerning palliative care for children in the South 

East Region. 

  Circular AQ4/19 – Extension of the ban on the marketing, sale, distribution and burning of 
bituminous coal (“the smoky coal ban”) to 13 additional towns, effective from September, 
2020 

  Letter from Conaire Fitzpatrick, Private Secretary to Minister Catherine Byrne’s Office 

regarding National Drugs Strategy. 

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the members 

18  Notices of Motion 

18.1   Cllr. Jim Moore 

“As part of Wexford County Council's campaign to tackle litter and waste dumping I propose 
the Council, through its Environment and Arts departments, develop a series of short films. 
These can be made available to our schools and cinemas, etc to urge people to act 
responsibly when dealing with litter and waste disposal”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. Jim Moore seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed 
by all.  

Cllr. D. Hynes left the meeting at 5.15pm. 

18.2    Cllr. Tom Forde 

“That this council write to Minister for Agriculture, Food and Marine, Michael Creed, 
expressing dissatisfaction with the recent EU fishing agreement which has failed to 
safeguard fishing into the future.” 

“This Council asks that our government do everything in its power to push for an effective 
ban of super trawlers from Irish waters and, while they do operate in these wagers, to 
implement relentless monitoring of their fishing activities.” 

As Cllr. Tom Forde had left the meeting it was agreed to defer his motion to the February 
2020 meeting.  

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

18.3    Cllr. Jim Moore 

“Request Wexford County Council, through its Environment section, to immediately 
investigate the use of smart technology as part of its campaign to reduce the number of 
damaged and stolen lifebuoys. New technology will offer low cost, low power systems with 
alarms in managing this essential lifesaving equipment.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. Jim Moore seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell and agreed 
by all.  

18.4    Cllr. Tom Forde 

“This council calls for a complete reform of the Direct Provision system and recognises that 
this system is inhumane and that people in this system lack access to basic necessities 
such as cooking, movement, and social requirements. 
We also ask that the Department of Justice closely liaise with Wexford County Council with 
regard to any form of direct provision or overflow facility in the county so that the local 
population can have an accurate information and understanding of what this entails.” 

As Cllr. Tom Forde had left the meeting it was agreed to defer his motion to the February 
2020 meeting.  

19.  Any other Business 

Cllr. L. Kelly raised the issue of broadcasting of Council meetings. Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of 
Services advised that he had submitted a Report to the Protocol Committee for 
consideration earlier in the day.   

The cost of the system would be €20,000 per annum on a 5 year contract. It would also be 
necessary to amend standing orders and do an impact assessment regarding GDPR. He 
further advised there was no revenue provision in the budget and the matter could be 
reviewed at Budget 2021. 

Cllr. A. Donohoe advised that experience of other local authorities was that only 10 – 12 
people watched the meeting live. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that he intended to write to Care Doc to give presentation at a 
meeting of County Council in March or April 2020 with regard to the provision of health 
services over the Christmas period. 

The Cathaoirleach then wished all the Members of the Council who will be candidates in the 
forthcoming General Election the best of luck.  

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 13.01.2020 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

Daingithe ar an 14ú la de Feabhra, 2020. 

________________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

_______________________ 
            County Secretary 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
