 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 14th October, 2019 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In The Chair: 

Councillor M. Sheehan 

Councillors:  

P. Barden; 
C. Byrne;  
K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell; 
W. Kavanagh; 
L. McDonald;  
J. O’Rourke;   
F. Staples; 

P. Breen; 

M. Bell; 
M. Byrne;  G. Carthy;  
A. Connick;  D. Devereux;  
J. Fleming;  T. Forde; 
G. Laffan; 
L. Kelly; 
J. Moore; 
B.A. Murphy;  
F. O’ Súilleabháin;   
J. Sullivan;  O. Walsh; 

A. Browne; 
J. Codd; 
A. Donohoe;   
J. Hegarty; 
G. Lawlor; 
B. Murphy; 
J. Owens; 
M. Whelan. 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive. 
T. Larkin; E. Hore, J. Carley, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, Meetings Administrator; 
Mr. G. Forde, Senior Engineer, Environment; 
Mr. B. Cooney, Senior Executive Scientist; 
Ms. C. Kelly, Assistant Scientist 

Apologies:   

Cllr D. Kenny; Cllr D. Hynes. 

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed the Members of the public sitting in the public gallery 
and advised them of the procedures for members of the public at Council Meetings. In particular, 
he emphasised that members of the public should not interact with Members of the Council nor 
should the Council Meeting itself be interrupted. 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of George Lawlor, father of Cllr. George Lawlor and uncle of Eric Lawlor, GP. 
  The family of Martina Shalloe, wife of Martin Shalloe, General Services Supervisor, New Ross 

District 

  The family of Philip Rooney, father of Tara Gray, Finance Department 
  The family of Josie Lacey, The Dirr, Bridgetown 
  The family of Bridie Ryan, St. Mullins 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The Castletown team who won the County Senior Football Final 2019 
  Marlfield House who won the Irish Hotel of the Year at the 2020 Georgina Campbell Awards 
  St. Martin’s Senior Camogie Team who won the County Final 2019 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

  Oylegate Glenbrien Camogie team who won the 2019 Intermediate County Final  
  Geraldine O’ Harahan’s camogie team 
  The Little Saltee Chipper in Kilmore Quay who won an award for the Best Fish and Chips in 

Ireland. 

  Blackwater who secured the highest Tidy Towns score in County Wexford in 2019 
  3 boxers, Ryan, Sinnott and Tom Murphy who won national championship matches recently 
  The Irish Women’s Soccer Team 
  Mark Doyle, U17 singles All-Ireland handball winner 
  April & Emily Moran, Ballymitty who reached the final of the All-Ireland Juvenile Softball Finals 

2019 

  Tadhg Furlong for his part in the Irish Rugby Team playing in the World Cup in Japan 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 9th September, 2019. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  J.  Fleming  and  agreed  by  all,  the  Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Cllr. J. Owens advised that he was not present for the vote on the LPT and that the record should 
be amended. 

Cllr.  M.  Farrell  asked  for  an  update  on  the  Anne  Street  site  as  did  Cllr.  J.  Codd.    The  Chief 
Executive advised that the matter had been forwarded to the Council’s law agent and there was no 
response  as  yet.    He  is  awaiting  a  response  and  it  is  difficult  to  say  when  the  response  will  be 
received. 

1.2 Special County Council Meeting – 9th September, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Connick seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke and agreed by all, the Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

1.3 Special Housing Meeting – 30th September, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. D. Devereux and agreed by all, the Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

1.4 Budget Working Group – 7th October, 2019. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  J.  Hegarty  seconded  by  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor  and  agreed  by  all,  the  Council 
approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

2. Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Proposed disposal of property at Spawell Road and 1798 Street, Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne, the proposed disposal was 
agreed by the Council. 

Cllr. L. Kelly raised a query regarding this sale and the Chief Executive advised that the sale of 
the house is agreed and that the shed would be incorporated into the house sale.  Mr. T. Larkin 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

advised that there were two different lines of ownership - the Section 183 permits the sale of the 
house and the sale of the shed to the occupier of the house. 

2.2 Proposed disposal of property at Coolcotts, Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly, the proposed disposal was agreed 
by the Council. 

2.3 Proposed disposal of a property at Courteencurragh, Gorey, Co. Wexford 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the proposed disposal was 
agreed by the Council. 

2.4 Proposed lease of lands at Newtown and Cullentra (ED Carrick) Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne, the proposed disposal was 
agreed by the Council. 

3.  Section 85 Agreement between Kildare County Council and Wexford County Council for 
rehabilitation works on O’ Hanrahan Bridge (WX-N25-027.00), Scarawalsh Bridge (WX-
N11-008.00), Island Bridge (WX-N30-010.00) and Mount Elliott Bridge (WX-N30-011.00) 

On the proposal of Cllr. B. A. Murphy seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne the Section 85 Agreement as 
submitted to the meeting was agreed by all. 

4.  Proposed Amendments to Standing Orders 

The proposed amendments to Standing Orders as circulated to the meeting were proposed by Cllr. 
P. Breen seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all. 

5.  Nomination to the Model County Enterprise Board 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed by all Cllr. B. A. Murphy 
was nominated to the Model County Enterprise Board. 

6.  Nomination to the board of 3 Counties Energy Agency 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and agreed by all Cllr. J. Fleming 
was nominated to the board of the 3 Counties Energy Agency. 

7.  Nomination to Sub-Committees: 

Nominations were then sought for the following Sub-Committees: 

  Revitalising Rural Wexford Sub-Committee which will be administered by the Housing & 

Community SPC 

  Healthy County Committee which will be administered by the Housing & Community SPC 
  Rosslare Port Committee which will be administered by the Transportation SPC 
  Future Skills Forum which will be administered by the Economic SPC 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

Following discussion it was agreed that all Members would submit forms to the County Secretary 
outlining which sub-committee they wished to serve on - the Cathaoirleach pointed out that he was 
anxious that the SPC’s and the Sub-Committees would be up and running as quickly as possible. 

It was also agreed that 8/9 Members would be the maximum per sub-committee. 

8.  Nomination to the Joint Policing Committee (following the resignation of Cllr. J. O’Rourke): 

This matter was dealt with later in the meeting when on the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy seconded 
by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all, Cllr. M. Farrell was nominated to the Joint Policing Committee. 

9.  Bank Overdraft Accommodation 2020: 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance had circulated a report with regard to the Council’s overdraft 
requirements for 2020 and  advised that approval was being sought for borrowing by way of 
temporary overdraft accommodation of €13m for the period 1st January, 2020 to 31st December, 
2020. 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen, the Members approved 
borrowing by way of temporary overdraft of €13m to 31st December 2020 in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 106 of the Local Government Act 2001. 

10. Climate Change Adaptation Strategy 2019-2024 (Presentation): 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that this was a statutory process arising from the 
Climate Action and Low Carbon Development Act 2015.  The presentation was made by Mr G. 
Forde, Senior Engineer and had been circulated earlier to the Members. 

Following the presentation Members of the Council thanked the Director and his staff for preparing 
the Strategy and asked a number of questions which were answered by Council Officials in 
attendance. 

The items raised included the following: 

  Concerns about the various aspects of the plan, in particular the detail of the plan.  Areas 

such as aerobic digestion, green procurement, Council policy generally, planning policy and 
underpinning of all Council services from an environmental point of view. 

It was noted that more detailed measures should be included in the strategy. 

  Banning smoky fuels in the county and challenging the Department on those matters. 
 
  Concerns about how to implement the strategy and how to finance it. 
  The issues of climate change was noted as being one of the biggest issues of concern to 

young people in the county 

  The submission by the Department of Agriculture on page 21 of the report not being fully 

considered.   

  The biodiversity crisis 
  Are the actions in the plan dramatic enough? 
  Biodiversity - green procurement 
 

It was proposed by Cllr. J. Codd and seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by all that 
deputations from the IFA and Fisheries meet the Members of the Council regarding climate 
change on an annual basis. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

  The cost of implementing the strategy with the particular note taken of increased rates for 
wind farms announced recently.  Wind farms are facing closure as a result of their new 
rates bills. 

  Agenda being too big – should focus on areas that they can improve on for example clean 

air, telling people what the air quality is like in towns via Map Alerter. 

The strategy was proposed by Cllr. M. Farrell seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all. 

11. Noise Action Plan 2019-2023: 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, introduced the plan which deals primarily with noise on roads 
and railways.   

Mr. B. Cooney, Senior Executive Scientist then made a presentation which had previously been 
circulated to the Members.  The presentation dealt with mitigation measures proposed by Wexford 
County Council to help reduce noise from roads and railways but in particular roads. 

Following the presentation Members of the Council asked a number of questions which were 
answered by Council Officials in attendance. 

The plan was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed by all. 

12. Strategic Policy Committees: 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, advised that changes had been made to the membership of the 
SPC’s following agreement by the Members at the September 2019 meeting to change the 
numbers of seats in the different SPC’s.   

On the proposal of Cllr. C. Byrne seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh the changes circulated to the 
Members were agreed as the final composition of the SPC’s. 

13. Ratification of PPN Representatives to committees of Wexford County Council:  

The PPN Representatives nominated to sit on the various Strategic Policy Committees and the 
Joint Policing Committee had been submitted to the Council and on the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne 
seconded by Cllr. B. A. Murphy the PPN Representatives submitted were ratified by the Council.   

14. Annual Service Delivery Plan Q3 2019: 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, advised that the Annual Service Delivery Plan for Quarter 3 
had been circulated to the Members. He advised that, if any Member had queries relating to the 
Plan, they could direct those queries to his office.  The Annual Service Delivery Plan for Q3 2019 
was noted by the meeting.  

15. Report of Corporate Policy Group 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group held on 7th October, 2019 was proposed by Cllr. A. 
Donohoe seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and agreed by all.  A number of issues arose from the 
minutes as follows: 

  Cllr. J. Moore asked about the position of the Council with regard to being covered by 
insurance in respect of GDPR.  He noted that this cover had been refused by IPB.   

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

The Head of Finance noted that, following discussed at the CPG Meeting, she undertook to 
make contact with IPB to investigate whether or not cover could be sought.  She noted that all 
of the Members of the Council are Data Controllers in their own right and she advised that she 
will come back to the Members when she has a response from IPB. 

The Chief Executive advised that he will be meeting the insurers this week and will raise this 
issue with them.  He also pointed out that this is a national issue 

16. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
including the following: 

  Update on Templeshannon Regeneration 
  The Rates Revaluation and the length of time for appeals and the multiplier for the 2020 

budget  

  Update on the Curracloe Greenway 
  House in Ballycullane 
  The likely level of the ARV for County Wexford in comparison to the eight other counties 

who had their revaluation done recently 

  Cut in local government funding in the 2020 budget 
  Update on Biodiversity in County Wexford  
  The use of Hotel Rosslare for Direct Provision 
  Waiting time for pre-planning meetings 
  The number of derelict sites identified which had been issued a notice 
  Rates on commercial properties which are not for rent or lease 
  Urban Adventure hub in Bunclody 
  Rosslare Europort 
  Update on Brexit contingency plans 
  Vacant properties 
  Derelict sites 
  District court cases in Ballinaboola with regard to sewerage 
  The numbers of properties affected by building control in New Ross 

17. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training 

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training was proposed by Cllr. B. A. Murphy seconded by 
Cllr. G. Carthy and agreed by all.  

18. Minutes of Meetings: 

18.1 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District 16.07.19 
18.2 Enniscorthy Municipal District 15.07.19 
18.3 New Ross Municipal District 10.07.19 
18.4 Borough District of Wexford 22.07.19 
18.5 Rosslare Municipal District 15.07.19 
18.6 Protocol Meeting 23.09.19  

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the proposal of Cllr. K. Codd Nolan seconded by Cllr. B. A. Murphy and agreed by Members 
present the Minutes outlined above were noted and approved. 

Cllr. J. Hegarty raised an issue arising from the Protocol Meeting with regard to the Ambassador 
Programme and asked that it be reviewed in order to find a permanent home for this programme. 

 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

19. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted and approved. 

20. Correspondence and Communications 

  Correspondence from Richard Bruton TD, regarding dog related litter offences 
  Acknowledgement from Dept of Housing, Planning & Local Government in connection with 

removing responsibility for traveler accommodation from local authorities query. 

  Acknowledgement from the office of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and the Marine. 
  Acknowledgement from the office of the Minister for Transport regarding a traffic survey on 

the N11. 

  Acknowledgment from Brendan Howlin, TD, Leader of the Labour Party. 
  Correspondence from Shane Ross, Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport in relation to 

the National Roads Programme. 

  Correspondence from the TII regarding a traffic survey on the N11from Oylegate to 

Rosslare Europort. 

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the Members. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Hegarty seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, Cllr. Hegarty asked that the 
Council writes back to the Department to clarify if a change in law for dog fouling is possible or 
is in train. 

Cllr. M. Byrne accused Minister Ross of passing the buck by forwarding correspondence from 
the Council regarding the upgrade/seeking a traffic survey of the N11 to TII. 

21. Notices of Motion 

21.1 Cllr. Leonard Kelly 

“The Council recognise the key role of public participation in local government as outlined by 
the 2013 report of the Working Group on Public Participation in Local Government, and also in 
the Council of Europe’s Code of Good Practice for Civil Participation in the decision making 
process, adopted in October 2009, and to which Ireland is a subscriber; the Council (Wexford 
County) therefore resolves to implement the webcasting of public meetings of the full council in 
order to meet the Code’s principle of participation, trust, accountability and transparency.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed.  The 
Director of Services E. Taaffe advised that the financial impact needed to be assessed and 
also looking at the experience of other Councils.   

It was then proposed by Cllr. G. Carthy seconded by Cllr. J. Moore and agreed that the Director 
would look at the costs and refer the matter back to the Protocol Committee for consideration. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

21.2 Cllr. Tom Forde 

“This Council believes that when in need children deserve to have palliative care in their final 
moments. We call on Minister for Health, Simon Harris, and the HSE to take immediate action 
to extend and allow palliative care to children in the South East Region”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed 
by all. 

21.3 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“That Wexford County Council would initiate a programme of reverse vending machines to 
encourage recycling.” 

21.4 Cllr. Fionntán OSúilleabháin 

"I call on this Council to seek to work with Tidy Towns and local supermarket groups to pilot a 
reverse vending machine in County Wexford" 

Motion 21.3 and 21.4 were taken together by agreement of the two proposers. On the proposal 
by Cllr. M. Byrne and Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin it was agreed that the Environment SPC would look 
at this motion on a pilot basis and this was agreed by all.  

21.5 Cllr. Leonard Kelly 

“As part of the Government’s climate action plan they propose 8,000 hectares of new forestry 
every year in a bid to capture carbon emissions. The target is for 70 per cent conifers and 30 
per cent broad leaves, an approximate total of 22 million trees. Except more than 15 million of 
these trees may be non native short lived (felled within 30 years) Sitka Spruce. I propose that 
Wexford County Council only support the planting of Native Irish Broad Leaf Trees (Oak, Ash, 
Alder and Birch)”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly seconded by Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin 
and agreed by all. 

21.6 Cllr. Tom Forde 

“This Council supports the Border Communities against Brexit and opposes any infrastructure 
or checkpoints at or near the border that would make it more difficult for businesses to operate 
on an all-Ireland basis. We ask the Irish government to ensure that previous commitments 
given by European, UK and Irish governments that there will be no hard physical Border are 
honoured so that the spirit and text of the Good Friday Agreement is upheld in full”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin 
and agreed by all. 

21.7 Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“That Wexford County Council amends our Allocation Scheme for Social Housing to provide 
that, as and from January 1st, 2020, that each month, at least one in ten houses be offered 
to applicants who have been on our housing lists for at least seven years.” 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty and it was 
agreed that this matter should be referred to the Housing SPC to set a clear target - nobody 
should be on the housing list for 7 years. 

 County Council Meeting 14.10.19 

22. Any Other Business   

The meeting then went “In Committee” on the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. 
Hegarty to discuss Civic Receptions. 

The County Secretary advised that the Protocol Committee had recommended that one event take 
place to honour the people of Wexford who had done well on a national or international stage over 
the previous year.   

This will take place in the Spring of 2020 and it was agreed that the Members should submit any 
persons or teams who might be included in this group for consideration by the Protocol Committee.  
It is envisaged that the Protocol Committee will come back with a short list for the Members 
approval. 

Cllr. J. Codd asked that the report on Anne Street be distributed to the Members of the Council.  
The Chief Executive agreed that the report of the Council carried out in 2016 be distributed to 
Members of the Council.  

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

_______________________  
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an 11ú la de Samhain, 2019. 

________________________ 

Cathaoirleach 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
