County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 12th November, 2018 – 1.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

M. Byrne; 
P. Breen; 
T. Dempsey;   
A. Connick; 
J. Fleming;    
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton;  
D. Hynes; 
L. McDonald;  
G. Lawlor;  
J. Mythen; 
L. O’Brien;  
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
T. Walsh; 
O. Walsh; 

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe;   
T. Forde; 
P. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
O. O’Connell;  
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

K. Codd-Nolan;  
M. Farrell; 
J. Hegarty; 
W. Kavanagh;   
M. Murphy; 
J. O’Rourke 
J. Sullivan;  

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services;  
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  

Apologies:   

Councillors B.A. Murphy; F. Staples. 

1.  Matt Shanahan, PRO, HEFSE: 

Matt  Shanahan,  PRO,  HEFSE,  introduced  his  team  of  Dr.  Aidan  Buckley  and  Dr.  Ray 
Griffin, Lecturer in Strategy, WIT.  The attached presentation which is a review by Dr. Ray 
Griffin,  of  “the  independent  clinical  review  of  the  needs  of  the  region”  was  shown  to  the 
Members of the Council.   

All three speakers highlighted the defects/inequality in the south east region with regard to 
the timely treatment of cardiac patients. Furthermore, they highlighted the lack of a second 
cath lab to deal with cardiac patients at University Hospital Waterford.   

The  speakers  outlined  the  background  to  this  issue  and  set  out  the  problems  which  are 
present in the south east region including County Wexford. The strategic under investment 
in the south east was also set out in the presentation. 

The  speakers  referred  to  the  Herity  Report which  recommended  that  all  cardiac  patients 
from the south east be transferred to Cork.   

1 

 
 
                                                                            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

The Herity Report is flawed in so far as it was based on a UK standard with regard to the 
time taken to bring cardiac patients from the South-East to hospital. The time taken to get 
to a hospital to deal with cardiac care is critical –the speakers noted that the longer it takes 
to get to hospital the worse the outcome for the patient.   

The  Herity  Report  states  that  the  critical  time  is  the  first  90  minutes  following  cardiac 
incidents - of the 196 patients transferred out of the region between 2015 and 2018 only 3 
got to Cork in 90 minutes.  The standard time for dealing with cardiac issues is 60 minutes 
and not 90 minutes as set out in the Herity Report.   

Matt  Shanahan  pointed  out  that  what  the  region  needs  now  is  a  budget  to  provide  a 
second  cath  lab  in  Waterford  and  a  budget  for  staff  to  be  recruited  to  facilitate  the 
extension of the lab hours. 

Following a wide-ranging discussion involving many of the Members of the Council, it was 
agreed that the Council would write to the Minister to seek a cross party meeting with him 
with regard to the issues raised. 

2.  Glenn Carr and Barry Kenny, Rail Freight & Rosslare Europort: 

Glenn Carr, General Manager of Rosslare Port presented the Strategic Plan for Rosslare 
Port,  as  circulated,  advising  the  Council  of  an  investment of  €15m  to  transform  Rosslare 
Europort.  The Plan set out an overview of Rosslare Europort business, its market and a 
layout of the port. 

Following  consideration  of  an  environmental  and  SWOT  analysis,  a  Recommended 
Strategy has been arrived at, as follows: 

  To build up the port’s capacity  
  To progress 12 recommendations to achieve growth, improved efficiencies, mitigate 

market risks and position for future growth 

  To  prioritise  the  exploration  of  medium  term  intentions  of  key  customers,  the 
progression  of  efficiency  discussions  and  the  validation  of  capital  investment 
requirements 

  Brexit related engagements and preparations to continue in parallel. 

Mr. Carr  emphasised  the  need for an  upgrade  of  the  road  into  Rosslare  Harbour, a  new 
entrance  into  the  port  and  a  new  customs  building.  He  also  highlighted  a  plan  to  extend 
the existing berths. 

The Chief Executive T. Enright welcomed both Glenn Carr and Barry Kenny to the meeting 
to brief the Council. He paid tribute to Glenn Carr and with regard to investment proposals 
and  profits being  ploughed  back  into  Rosslare  Europort.    He  noted  that  he  had  met  with 
the Chairman of the Irish Rail recently to discuss Rosslare Europort and the rail service to 
Dublin. 

The  Chief  Executive  noted  that  Glenn  Carr  dispelled  a  number  of  myths  with  regard  to 
Rosslare Port in his presentation.  He also noted that he was looking forward to the Ernst 
& Young Report being published.  

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

Barry  Kenny,  Irish  Rail,  updated  the  meeting  on  Irish  Rail’s  position  with  regard  to  the 
Rosslare Europort to Dublin railway line. He advised that there are no plans for any major 
changes to the line. However, there are plans to introduce extra intermediate rail cars.  

He also highlighted a 9% increase of rail passengers in 2018, primarily due to a substantial 
reduction in fares over the summer period. Mr. Kenny also expressed concerns about the 
potential  effects  of  coastal  erosion  on  the  rail  line,  calling  for  a  medium  to  long  term 
strategy to deal with the matter. He also confirmed that there is no plan to close the Gorey 
to Rosslare line. 

The  Chief  Executive  responded  to  Mr.  Kenny  stating  that  the  Council  had  made  a 
submission  to  Irish  Rail  last  year  with  recommendations  to  improve  the  rail  service  to 
Dublin, including passengers disembarking to the Dart service at Bray, bypassing smaller 
stations  to  improve  journey  times,  having  more  frequent  train  services,  including  an 
express service, and the upgrading of rail cars. He also referred to the potential risk to the 
rail line from coastal erosion 

Members  then  raised  a  number  of  issues  referring  to  both  presentations  including  the 
following: 

  Expansion of berths 
  The Indecon Report 
  The operation of the rail network 
  The inclusion of the port’s development in the National Development Plan 2040. 
  The impediments to usage of the Port  
  The opportunities arising from Brexit. 
  Future Investment in the Port 
  Draft restraint issues in the Port 
  British Government view of making improvements to port at Fishguard 
  Rebranding needs to be done 
  Not too late to get haulers’ back on the Rosslare/Fishguard route 
  Cruise ships – need input from the tourism board 
  Rail freight and the need for change of government policy 
  Price  focused  marketing  to  increase  the  travel  between  Rosslare  Harbour  and 

Dublin. 

  Privatising berths 

The  Cathaoirleach  then  thanked  Glenn  Carr  and  Barry  Kenny  for  their  presentation  and 
Glenn  Carr  advised  that  he  would  be  happy  to  come  back  to  the  Members  and  update 
them on any further future progress in Rosslare Europort.  

3.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

3.1 County Council Meetings – 8th October, 2018. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  P.  Breen  and  agreed  by  all,  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meetings as outlined above.  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

 

the family of Jack Sharkey, father of Anne Griffin, Library Service and grandfather of 
Ronan Griffin, Housing and Laura Griffin, Environment. 

  The family of William Robinson, partner of Angie Parle, Library Service. 

 

the family of John O’Connor, father in law of Deputy Paul Kehoe 

 

the family of Danny Beary Belvedere, Wexford 

 

the family of Mary Bradley Lús Mór, Wexford 

 

the family of May Dempsey Corish Park, Wexford 

 

the family of Micheal Smith Liam Mellows, Wexford 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Naomh Eanna Hurling Team from Gorey 
  Niall Kennedy, Boxer, Gorey 
  Library Service, WCC for their work on the Wexford War Dead website 
  Wexford  Youths  Women’s  Team  on  their  success  in  the  becoming  Women’s 
National  League  Champions–  the  Cathaoirleach  advised  that  a  civic  reception  is 
being proposed for Wexford Youths to take place in 2019 

  Saoirse McGarrigle who was nominated for a national award for Journalism  
  The organisers of Wexford Science Festival “WexSci” 
  Michael D. Higgins on his appointment as President of Ireland 
  Fethard Intermediate Hurlers for their recent success 
  Cody O’Connor who won a gold medal in martial arts 
  Rackard league champions, St. Martins, Piercestown. 

4.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

4.1 Proposed lease Coolcotts Community Centre, Wexford.  
4.2 Proposed lease of 8 Lee Heights, Wexford. 
4.3 Proposed lease of the Community Building at Rosslare Harbour. 
4.4 Proposed disposal of 16 Greenore Park, Rosslare Harbour. 
4.5 Proposed lease of additional lands at Trespan Rocks, Maudlintown, Wexford.  

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne,  the  proposed 
disposals, as submitted to the meeting, were approved. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

5.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

5.1 LAC1805 - Creagh, Creagh Demesne, Gorey Rural 

Proposed development of existing site to provide 12 no. social housing units to include 
2 no. 3 bed semi-detached two storey units, 2 no. 2 bed semi-detached single storey 
units & 8 no. 2 bed apartments in 2 no. two storey block, and all auxillary and 
associated site works.  

5.2 LAC 1806 – Crescent Quay, Wexford 

Public Realm Improvements to Crescent Quay and along the waterfront promenade 
between Anne Street and Oyster Lane, and to Henrietta Street from Crescent Quay to 
Main Street, including: provision of bus stop, disabled parking space and access for 
delivery vehicles.  New and enhanced pedestrian crossing points.  New seating, 
planting, street furniture and street lighting.  Undergrounding of existing overhead 
services and removal of existing poles.  Reducing the existing road carriageway width 
to increase pedestrian space on both sides of the road.  Raising of flood wall to 
enhance flood protection.  High quality surface materials.  Other miscellaneous works. 

On the proposal of Cllr. R. Ireton seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke, the proposed 
developments, as submitted to the meeting, were approved and agreed by all.  

6.  Borrowing 

  Bank Overdraft Accommodation 2019  

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance had circulated a report with regard to the Council’s 
overdraft requirements for 2019 and  advised that approval was being sought for 
borrowing by way of temporary overdraft accommodation of €13m for the period 1st 
January, 2019 to 31st December, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. R. Ireton, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Members 
approved borrowing by way of temporary overdraft of €13m to 31st December 2019 in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 106 of the Local Government Act 2001. 

 

Increased Borrowing Requirement for Publicly Funded Housing Mortgages 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance had circulated a report with regard to increased 
borrowing requirement to facilitate the completion of the Housing Mortgage 
Programme. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Members 
approved additional borrowing of €1.5m for the 2018 Housing Mortgage 
Programme, in accordance with Section 106 of the Local Government Act 2001. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

7.  Audited Account and Statutory Audit Report for year ended 31st December 2017 

The Audited Account and Statutory Audit Report for year ended 31st December was 
proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe and agreed by all.  

8.  Naming of N25 By-Pass Bridge 

Proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien it was agreed that the new 
bridge in New Ross would be called the Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy Bridge as had been 
proposed by the New Ross Municipal District. 

9.  2017 Draft Annual Report (text version)  

Proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke and agreed by all. 

It was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. M. Farrell to suspend Standing 
Orders to allow the meeting to continue to 6 p.m. 

10. Report on Implementation of the Litter Acts in County Wexford  

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised the Members that they had asked for a report 
on  the  implementation  of  the  Litter  Acts  in  County  Wexford.    The  Members  noted  the 
report.  Mr. G. Forde, Senior Engineer, and Hugh Maguire, Administrative Officer, advised 
the  Members  that  they  were  going  to  visit  each  of  the  Municipal  Districts  to  discuss  the 
report in detail.  

11. Proposed Draft Wexford County Council (Segregation, Storage and Presentation 

of Household and Commercial Waste) Bye-Laws 2018 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that the Council had received two submissions 
arising from the public consultation which had been dealt with in the draft bye-laws. 

The Bye-Laws were proposed by Cllr. O. Walsh seconded by Cllr.  J. Fleming and agreed 
by all with the exception of Cllr. O. O’Connell.  

12. Report  on  the  Expansion  of  Environmental  Clean-Up  Crews  (Rapid  Response 

Crews) and Charges at Civic Amenity Sites in County Wexford. 

The contents of this report were noted and it was agreed that the matters contained in the 
report would be discussed further at the Municipal Districts. 

13. Wexford Great War Dead – Library Service Public History Research Project 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that this website is now live and this was noted 
by  the  Members.    The  Members  congratulated  and  thanked  the  Library  Service  for  the 
work done in putting this website together. 

Cllr. P. Kavanagh asked if work could be done on identifying soldiers who came back from 
the Great War and that information put into the archives as well.   

The Director agreed to look at that proposal. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

Cllr. M. Sheehan thanked Eileen Morrissey, County Librarian, and the Municipal District for 
the Remembrance Concert which took place in New Ross yesterday. 

Cllr.  W.  Fitzharris  thanked  Nolan  Transport  for  transporting  a  sculpture  of  the  “Haunting 
Soldier” to St. Stephen’s Green, Dublin. 

Cllr. W. Kavanagh said that a very moving ceremony had taken place in Enniscorthy and 
thanked Nicola Halford and Liz Hore for organising the event and also thanked Cllr. Codd 
Nolan’s sister for the  amount  of  information  she  had  passed  on with  regard  to  the  Great 
War. 

Cllr.  T.  Dempsey  thanked  Angie  Laffan,  Town  Manager,  Wexford,  for  the  excellent 
ceremony that had taken place in Wexford. 

14. WEXSCI Wexford Science Festival – 11th to 18th November 2018 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that the Festival would be taking place in the 
next week and that it would be a showcase for science in County Wexford. 

15. Call for submissions in relation to the Local Authority Elected Members Role and 

Remuneration Review 

Mr.  E.  Taaffe,  Director  of  Services,  advised  that  the  correspondence,  as  circulated,  had 
been  received  from  the  Department  seeking  submissions  from  Members  of  the  Council 
with  regard  to  the  role  and  remuneration  review.    It  was  also  noted  that  the  AILG  and 
LAMA had made submissions to this review on behalf of their Members. 

16. Report of Corporate Policy Group  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien the Report of Corporate 
Policy Group of 5th November, 2018 was approved by the meeting.  

17. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
including the following: 

  Arrears arising from rent review 
  New  legislation  with  regard  to  planning  which  deals  with  taking  into  account 

developers previous history in the planning system 
  The process involved in applying for social housing 
  Advice to members of the public of how to deal with anti-social behavior and what to 
do  if  they  come  across  it.    Mr.  J.  Carley,  Director  of  Services,  agreed  to  arrange 
same 

  Houses at Danescastle and Castlemoyle New Ross 
  Housing allocations in north County Wexford and the priority for housing applicants 

in North County Wexford. 

  The ability of the Council to respond quickly to false information on social media 
  The  Director  advised  that  the  SEO  in  Housing  will  be  in  attendance  at  the  next 

Gorey MD Meeting 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

  The lack of priority in buying land in Gorey/north of the County by CPO 
  Query regarding the 2019 Town and Village Renewal Scheme 

18.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

  Report on New Ross Delegation Visit to Danville, California, September 2018 
  Report of Cllr. G. Lawlor on Smart Towns and Villages Conference 
  Report of Cllr. G. Lawlor on Lugo Twinning Trip September 2018   

The Members noted the reports submitted as outlined above.   

A report regarding the delegation to the Forum on Global Production Capacity and 
Business Cooperation, Hubei Province, People’s Republic of China was also circulated to 
the Members at the meeting. 

The County Secretary advised that GDPR Training for Members of the Council will take 
place in Kilkenny on Thursday and further training on the 9th January 2019 by WCC will 
take place at 11.30 a.m. 

The  list  of  Councillors’  Conferences  and  Training  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan, 
seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and agreed by all. 

19. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Kavanagh, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, and agreed by all the 
Members present, the following minutes were noted and approved: 

19.1 Gorey Municipal District Meeting 18.09.18 
19.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 12.09.18 
19.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 17.09.18 
19.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 15.10.18  
19.5 Mental Health Sub Committee Meeting 19.10.18 

19. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted.  

21. Correspondence and Communications 

Cllr. F.O’ Súilleabháin expressed his disappointment with the reply from Minister Ross 
regarding roads funding.   

Arising from the presentation earlier in the meeting it was agreed by Members that a letter 
would be sent to the Minister seeking a cross party deputation to include Members of 
HEFSE to meet with Minister Simon Harris to appraise him of the critical service issues on 
the ground and to request the immediate appointment of a full time interventional 
cardiologist and the supporting budget to begin intervention duties in the module 
catheterisation lab currently on site at UHW.   

The following correspondence was noted by the Members: 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

  Correspondence from Private Secretary to Minister Ross regarding local roads 

funding 

  Acknowledgement from Deputy M. D’Arcy 
  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice and Equality 

regarding publishing data on the prosecution of discriminatory crime 

  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice and Equality 

regarding Control of Economic Activities 

  Acknowledgement from Deputy M. D’Arcy regarding life insurance for those who 

are sick or suffer from a certified illness 

  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to Minister Ross regarding the M11 

Motorway 

  Acknowledgement from Assistant Private Secretary to the Taoiseach 
  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to the Minister for Finance and Public 

Expenditure and Reform 

  Acknowledgement from the Office of the Minister for Communications, Climate 

Action and Environment regarding Pay by Weight Regulations 

  Correspondence from Paul Kehoe, T.D., regarding the procurement of unmanned 

aerial vehicles from an Israeli company 

  Correspondence from the Office of the Tanaiste, Minister for Foreign Affairs and 

Trade, concerning the Control of Economic Activity (Occupied Territories) Bill 2018 

22. Deferred Notice of Motion: 

22.1 Cllr. M. Whelan 

“That  this  Council  would  allot  time  on  October  agenda  to  discuss  the  closure  of  post 
offices, lack of broadband and other matters concerning rural villages around Wexford, 
and the impact its having on the development of rural Wexford”. 

22.2 Cllr. O. O’Connell 

“In the interests of transparency and accountability: policy documents adopted by 
Elected Members of this Council will be archived online permanently - in an accessible 
manner for the public”. 

These motions were deferred to the next meeting of the Council 

23.Notices of Motion: 

23.1 Cllr. R. Ireton 

“Wexford County Council need to put a plan together through Education and Life Long 
Learning on environment issues for future needs of all living and visiting our coastal 
towns and villages.  There is at present no policing of some areas and this needs to be 
addressed.  The Department of Environment through Wexford County Council needs to 
not only raise awareness with communities but to get input from said communities in 
working together”. 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

23.2 Cllr. D. Hynes 

“That this Council urges the Dept of Justice to look at the current system of Garda 
Vetting which requires the same  person on each occasion for each organisation to 
apply separately”. 

23.3 Cllr. J. Hegarty 

“Following last month's decision by an Bord Pleanala to refuse planning permission for 
the proposed Greenway from Ferrybank to Curracloe, this Council absolutely reaffirms 
its commitment to developing a Greenway in this location. Furthermore we call on the 
Minister for Culture, Heritage and the Gaeltacht (who has responsibility for National 
Parks and Wildlife and Birdwatch Ireland) to meet with representatives from Wexford 
County Council to find an agreed solution that will protect the wildlife while allowing this 
flagship project for the county to go ahead”. 

23.4 Cllr. T. Dempsey 

“That Wexford County Council would receive a deputation and presentation from 
HEFSE (Health Equality for the South East) to include Wexford Hospitals lead 
cardiologist Dr Aidan Buckley to inform the County Council members of the significant 
and negative service discrimination being suffered by Wexford Cardiac Patients in 
accessing regional acute and elective cardiac care”. 

23.5 Cllr. T. Dempsey 

“That Wexford County Council would consider creating a cross party deputation and 
same to include local members of HEFSE to meet with Minister Simon Harris to both 
appraise him of the critical service issues on the ground and to request the immediate 
appointment of a full time Intervention al Cardiologist to begin intervention al duties in 
the Modular Catholic lab presently on site at UHW”. 

23.6 Cllr. O. O’Connell 

“This Council, recognising: 

- the historical impact of the Irish who - like the Wild Geese - have fought abroad 
throughout the centuries, out of necessity or commitment; 
- the sacrifices and traumas of both fighters and survivors of those conflicts; 
- the diversity of our diaspora and national experiences; 
- our significant UN peacekeeping commitments; 

Will commemorate all such broader "Wild Geese" simply, inclusively, and respectfully 
on November 11 ("Armistice Day"/US Veterans of Foreign Wars/Remembrance Day)” 

The above motions were deferred to the next meeting of the Council. 

24. Any Other Business   

The Cathaoirleach reminded the Members that the Environmental Awards will take place 
this evening in the Ferrycarrig Hotel at 7pm. 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 12.11.18 

Cllr. M. Whelan asked that his motion on rural villages around Wexford and its impact on 
rural Wexford would be dealt with as an agenda item at the December 2018 meeting.  This 
was agreed by the Members. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan asked if there had been any reply to a letter to the HSE regarding the 
number of GP’s operating in County Wexford.  It was also hoped that someone from the 
HSE would come to meet with the Council.  

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Nollaig, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
