County Council Meeting 09.04.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 9th April, 2018 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
J. Moore; 
J. Mythen; 
M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
T. Forde; 
R. Ireton;  
B.A. Murphy;  
L. O’Brien; 
M. Sheehan;  
T. Walsh; 

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe;   
W. Fitzharris;  
P. Kavanagh; 
O. O’Connell; 
J. O’Rourke;   
F. Staples;  
M. Whelan. 

K. Codd-Nolan;  
K. Doyle; 
J. Fleming;    
G. Lawlor; 
M. Murphy; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin; 
J. Sullivan;  

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, Senior Executive Officer; 
Mr. T. Nolan, Administrative Officer; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  

Apologies:   

Councillors:   W. Kavanagh; L. McDonald.  

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed a number of visitors to the Council Chamber. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 12th March, 2018. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  B.A.  Murphy  and  agreed  by  all  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  Michael Wadding, father of Bernard Wadding, Housing Dept 
  The Kelly family, Belvedere Grove, 
  Willie  Doyle, Ballycogley 
  The O’Brien family, Killegney, Clonroche 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.04.18 

  Dunphy Family, Irishtown, New Ross 
  The O’Connor family, St. Aidan’s Villas, Enniscorthy 
  A  vote  of  sympathy  was  also  passed  in  respect  of  Cllr.  Fergie  Kehoe  whose 

anniversary occurs around this time. 

Vóta Comhghairdeas 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The 5 drama groups who qualified for the All Ireland Finals both in the confined and 
open competitions – it was agreed to write to each of the groups to wish them good 
luck in the competition. 
  Foster Moran for Rugby 7’s 
  To North End United who have secured a place in the FAI Junior Cup Final. 
  Wexford Jockey Daryl Jacob who took part in the Aintree Grand National 
  Ballycullane Ploughing Association 60th Anniversary 
  Organisers  of  the  event  that  took  place  in  Rosslare  Harbour  to  commemorate  the 
50th anniversary of the St. Phelan’s air disaster which  was attended by 150 family 
members 

  Wexford Wanders who won the Leinster League Division 2B 
  Breege Cosgrave and the LEO Staff for staging the Youth Enterprise Awards in the 

Opera House 

  Organisers of the Hope and Dream Foundation 10K in Enniscorthy  
  Fr. Murphy’s GAA Club, London which celebrates its 60th Anniversary this year and 

it was noted that a set of hurls would be presented from WCC to the club. 

  The Kilmuckridge drama group for reaching the All Ireland Finals. 
  The organisers of the Garda Youth Awards held recently in County Hall. 
  The  organisers  of  the  3  day  cycling  race  in  Gorey  held  at  Easter  which  attracted 

250 cyclists. 

2.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Proposed transfer of property known as the National 1798 Centre at Mill Park 
Road, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

The Council considered the Notice circulated under Section 183 of the Local 
Government Act. 

The  proposed  transfer  of  property  known  as  the  National  1798  Centre  at  Mill  Park 
Road,  Enniscorthy,  Co. Wexford  was  proposed  by  Councillor  M.  Byrne,  seconded  by 
Councillor  P.  Kavanagh.    An  amended  proposal  was  made  by  Cllr.  J.  Mythen  and 
seconded  by  Cllr.    O’Connell  to  the  effect  that  the  sale  would  be  postponed  until  a 
permanent  site  for  the  1798  Centre  was  located  and  pending  a  plan  for  a  long  term 
home for the contents of the 1798 Centre. 

Following a wide ranging discussion the amended proposal was then put to the Council 
with 8 voting in favour and the remainder  voting against.  This proposal was declared 
defeated.   

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The original proposal to transfer the land, which had been proposed and seconded earlier 
in the meeting,  was then put to the Council which was approved by all with the exception 
of 8 Councillors voting against, and one abstention – Cllr. K. Doyle.  

County Council Meeting 09.04.18 

3.  Roadworks Programme 2018 

Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services, presented the  Roadworks Programme 2018 which had 
already been circulated to the Members and had been approved in the four districts. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  the  Programme  was 
agreed.  

4.  Development Planning Contribution Scheme 2018  

The  Development  Planning  Contribution  Scheme  2018  was  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne 
seconded by Cllr. W. Fitzharris. 

Discussion  took  place  with  regard  to  the  detail  in  the  scheme  including  the  proposed 
charges  for  solar  wind  farms.  Cllr.  O.  O’Connell  left  the  meeting  while  this  matter  was 
being discussed.   

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan seconded by Cllr. K. Doyle it was proposed to increase 
the charge per mw for wind and solar energy from €2,000 to €4,000 per mw.  It was also 
proposed  that  the  extra  money  raised  would  be  allocated  to  developments  for  the 
communities. Following a vote, this amendment was defeated.  

The  original  proposal  was  then  put  to  the  Council  and  the  Development  Planning 
Contribution Scheme 2018 was adopted. 

5.  Report of Corporate Policy Group 

The Report of Corporate Policy Group of 3rd April 2018 was noted by the meeting.  

With regard to the Ambassador Programme the Cathaoirleach advised that a review of 
nominations is currently taking place and the final list will be brought before the meeting in 
May 2018. 

6.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
in relation to the following: 

  Cleaning of chimneys to prevent chimney fires. 
  Signing  of  the  SICAP  and  measure  to  assess  whether  or  not  the  programme  is 
successfully tackling the social inclusion and deprivation issues in County Wexford 

At 3.50 p.m. Cllr. D. Hynes left the meeting 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.04.18 

  Update on the status of Third Level Campus in County Wexford - Cllr. M. Byrne left 

the meeting during discussions on this matter 

  Women’s Refuge 
  Welcoming funding for Piers and Harbours in Co. Wexford 
  Planning guidance with regard to local need 
  Taking in charge process 
  Greenway Regional Strategy 
  Welcome for Farming and community scheme 
  The process and timescales for Village Renewal Design Statements 
  Traffic jam at Whitford roundabout 
  Condition of roads following the recent bad weather and the need for extra funding 

to restore the roads to a reasonable standard 

  National clean up month 
  The current status of the two major by passes 
  Carbon monoxide Alarms 
  Review of County Development Plan 
  Min Ryan Park 
  The visit of Minister for Transport to Rosslare Harbour 
  The Chinese Ambassador’s visit to County Wexford  
  The  Redmond  100th  anniversary  on  next  Sunday  to  be  attended  by  President 

Michael D. Higgins 

7.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

Leas-Cathaoirleach  Barbara  Anne  Murphy  gave  a  report on  her recent  visit  to  New  York 
on behalf of Wexford County Council. 

The  Cathaoirleach  advised  that  links  with  Savannah  and  the  opening  of  a  trade  bridge 
office  in  Savannah  and  a  similar  office  in  the  Enterprise  Centre  in  Wexford  were  being 
worked  on  at  present.    It  was  agreed  that  a  delegation  including  the  Cathaoirleach  and 
Mayor of Wexford and two staff members would travel to Savannah to forward the project. 

It  was  further  agreed  that  the  Leas-Cathaoirleach  B.A.  Murphy  would  attend  the 
International Architecture Exhibition in Venice. 

The list of Councillors’ Conferences and Training were agreed on the proposal of Cllr. M. 
Byrne and seconded by Cllr. L. O’Brien. 

8. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne, and agreed by all the 
Members present the following minutes were noted and approved. 

8.1 Gorey Municipal District Meeting 20.02.18 
8.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting 14.02.18 
8.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting 19.02.18 
8.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 19.02.18 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted on the proposal of Cllr. 
K. Codd Nolan. 

County Council Meeting 09.04.18 

10. Correspondence and Communications 

  Response from Transportation and Water SPC regarding motion. 
  Acknowledgment from the office of Mr. Eoghan Murphy, TD, regarding Rosslare 

Europort 

  Acknowledgement from the office of Mr. Shane Ross, TD, regarding a meeting 

regarding funding for roads. 

  Acknowledgment from the office of the Minister for Justice and Equality. 
  Response from Data Commissioner 

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the Members. 

11. Notices of Motion: 

 “This Council requests ESB Networks, the national electricity utility, provide details and a 
presentation to WCC and to confirm their development and upgrade plans for the network 
in  our  area  which  will  support  and  assist  the  economic  and  infrastructure  our  County  as 
detailed in our recent countywide ambitious development strategy.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. Jim Moore seconded by Cllr. Paddy Kavanagh 
and agreed by all 

“That  this  Council  calls  on  the  Government  to  replace  the  failed  ‘Rebuilding  Ireland 
Programme’,  due  the  continued  escalation  of  homelessness  that  now  stands  at  6,052 
adults  and  3,755  children*  who  are  homeless,  and  replace  it  with  rent  control,  increased 
rent  allowance,  a  large  scale  social  building  project  and  immediate  use  of  vacant 
properties as emergency provision (*Dept of Housing Figures 2018).” 

The  above  motion  was  proposed  by  Cllr.  Tony  Walsh  seconded  by  Cllr.  Johnny  Mythen 
and agreed by all.  

12. Any Other Business   

Cllr. J. Mythen advised that a nuclear power plant in Somerset is set to commence 
operation in 2023.  The closing date for submissions in relation to this development is 17th 
April 2018. 

Cllr. M. Sheehan raised the issue of new funding available from the Department of 
Enterprise and T. Larkin, Director of Services, agreed to look into this matter. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 09.04.18 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Bealtaine, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
