Special County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 11th March, 2019 – 11.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

G. Carthy; 
M. Byrne; 
M. Doyle 
T. Dempsey;   
T. Forde;  
J. Fleming;    
P. Kavanagh; 
R. Ireton; 
B.A. Murphy;  
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 
J. Sullivan;  

K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell;  
J. Hegarty; 
W. Kavanagh;   
L. O’Brien;  
M. Sheehan;  
T. Walsh;  

A. Connick; 
W. Fitzharris;  
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor;  
J. O’Rourke;   
F. Staples;                
M. Whelan. 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services;  
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance & ICT; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  

Apologies:   

Councillors P. Breen, J. Moore.  

1.  National  Revaluation  Programme  (Wexford)  –  Presentation  by  Valuation  Office 

(In-Committee) 

At  the  outset,  the  Cathaoirleach  introduced  Terry  Fahey  from  the  Valuation  Office,  who 
then  made  a  presentation,  which  had  been  previously  circulated  to  the  Members.    He 
advised the Members that the revaluation process will take place over the next 3-4 months 
and  that  the  information  he  is  giving  to  the  Members  today  can  be  used  to  advise  their 
constituents who are rate payers.  He covered the following areas in his presentation: 

  Valuation Office and Rating System in Ireland  
  National Revaluation Programme 
  The Revaluation Process 
  Revaluation Outcomes so far 
  Next steps and Key Dates 
  Questions and Answers 

At 11.47 a.m. Cllr. A. Connick arrived. 

The  details  of  the  areas  covered  by  Terry  Fahey  are  set  out  in  detail  in  his presentation 
which was circulated to the Members. 

1 

 
 
                                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

There then followed questions from the Members.  Terry Fahey advised that he can come 
back to meet the Council at a later date if required.  He has also left his email address and 
phone number with Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance, so that Members can make individual 
queries to his office or to himself. 

Topics covered during the questions and answers included the following: 

  Definition of trading data 
  Part of the process of the revaluation cert 
  The assessment of local rental income 
  Pressure on counties with urban centers  
  The issue of issuing the provisional certs after the Local Election was then brought 

up and the timing of the issue of certs was queried 

  The linking of valuation to improvements in premises has a penalising effect on the 

people who carry out the improvements 

  Revaluations every 5 years is too long – Terry Fahey advised that every 3 years is 

 

the optimum target and that this will require change of legislation 
Issues  looked  at  during  the  revaluation  e.g.  footfall,  dereliction,  and  parking  -  are 
these taken into account in making the revaluation? Terry Fahey advised that rents 
should reflect all issues. 

  Trading figures for supermarket chains – are they submitted to the Valuation Office? 
Terry Fahey advised that the Valuation Office doesn’t look at the trading figures for 
supermarkets 

  Access  to  Revenue  Commissioners  –  can  the  Valuation  Office  look  at  ratepayers 
tax  figures?  Terry  Fahey  advised  that  the  Valuation  Office  doesn’t  look  at  the  tax 
affairs of ratepayers 

  Treatment  of  charities  under  the  new  system  –  Terry  Fahey  advised  that  where 
Charity Shops are in direct competition with other ratepayers they are also liable to 
pay rates. 

  Real-time adjustment for September 2017 – can that be taken into account if things 
have changed dramatically since that time? - Terry Fahey advised that the current 
situation can be factored into the revaluation 

  Closure of shops in rural villages as a result of rate increases 
  Vacancy  rates  in  villages  versus  town  by  town  -  Terry  Fahey  advised  that  the 
difference  in  vacancy  rates  and  the  reason  for  revaluing  the  rental  values  will  be 
reflected in the valuation 
Is  there  a  time  period  to  allow  new  businesses  to  get  up  and  running?  –  Terry 
Fahey advised that the collection of rates from new businesses is a function of the 
Local Authority and not the Valuation Office 

 

  Length of time of the appeal process 
  Members will be notified directly of dates for walk in clinics for ratepayers. 

2.  Deferred Notices of Motion 

2.1 Cllr. T. Forde: 

“"We ask that Wexford County Council seriously consider and take steps to end the 
over reliance of privately run bed and breakfasts or hotels for emergency 
accommodation. We ask that Wexford County Council recognise the unsuitability of the 
current emergency accommodation model and to examine the possibility of acquiring 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

and using more actual houses that could be operated by the council or in coordination 
with other housing organisations for the provision of emergency accommodation." 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. M. Roche. 

Mr J. Carley, Director of Service, advised that it is not possible to change the system at 
present.  However there is on-going progress with a wide range of issues and it is the 
Council’s intention to reduce the amount spent on Bed & Breakfast by 20% this year. 

Cllr. J. O’Rourke asked if owners of Bed & Breakfasts are Garda vetted. 

The motion was then approved.   

2.2 Cllr. T. Forde: 

"We call on Wexford County Council to formulate and to make public a written mental 
health policy for housing which may include a clear protocol when dealing with tenants 
with mental health concerns and to include mental health issues as a priority in the 
allocation of housing” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde.  Following discussion it was agreed 
that this motion will be referred back to the Housing SPC - this was agreed by Cllr. T. 
Forde. 

2.3 Cllr. G. Carthy: 
“That Wexford County Council immediately re-installs the vehicular access to the 
beach at Seaview, Kilmore.  This commitment was given to the local community and 
the emergence services in May of 2018 and to date has not been acted on”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Carthy seconded by Cllr. M. Roche.   

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that consideration would be given to 
ongoing work.  This matter was referred to the District.  It was noted that the Senior 
Engineer Gerry Forde had attended District Meetings and will be available in the future.   

2.4 Cllr. J. Mythen: 

“That this Council sends solidarity and support to our nurses and midwives whom have  
legitimately balloted their members to take strike action, to secure restoration of pay 
with a safe fully staffed,  functioning Health service, that values and pays them as 
essential skilled workers”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Mythen seconded by Cllr. T. Walsh and 
agreed by all.  

2.5 Cllr. T. Forde: 

"Maidir leis an Ghaeilge agus iarracht a dhéanamh í a chur chun cinn agus Seachtain 
na Gaeilge a cheiliúradh gach Márta:  "Iarraim go spreagfaidh an Chomhairle seo go 
gníomhach úsáid na Gaeilge ag cruinniú Mí Mhárta de Chomhairle Contae Loch 
Garman gach bliain. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

Iarraimid ar bhaill atá compordach leis úsáid a bhaint as ár dteanga-an Ghaeilge chun 
moltaí, comhghairdeas agus comhbhrón a thairiscint" 

"In an effort to promote the Irish language and to mark Seachtain na Gaeilge every 
March, I ask that this Council actively encourage the use of Gaeilge at the March 
meeting of Wexford County Council every year by asking members of the council who 
are comfortable using the language to consider submitting motions and to offer 
congratulations and sympathies as Gaeilge." 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde and agreed by all. 

The remaining motions below were referred to the County Council Meeting which will 
be held at 2.30 p.m. this afternoon. 

2.6 Cllr. M. Doyle: 

“In support of events to mark the sitting of the first Dáil and in recognition of it's historic 
importance, I propose that Wexford County Council take this opportunity to recognise 
the core principles of the Democratic Programme of the First Dáil by displaying a 
framed copy of the document in a prominent place in this chamber."  

2.7 Cllr. R. Ireton: 

“On behalf of Aitheantas I am calling on Wexford County Council to write to Minister 
Zappones Department requesting/demanding that her Department acknowledges 
Adoptee Identity Rights and immediately shows Adoptees access to their own 
information on health, history and heritage in line with the equality and personal 
autonomy rights of other citizens and as voted for in two referenda”. 

2.8 Cllr. M. Whelan: 

“That Wexford County Council reviews its development fees for Solar farms in the 
county and raise them to a level that would reflect the impact on the local community”.  

2.9 Cllr. J. Hegarty: 

“In line with our ongoing efforts to position County Wexford as a healthy county, I call 
on Wexford County Council to pass on live information and warnings when required in 
relation to the air quality of our main towns to the general public via the Map alert 
system”.  

2.10 Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“That Wexford County Council condemns the outrageous cost overruns of the planned 
National Children’s Hospital and calls for those responsible to be held to account.” 

2.11 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“That this Council supports our GPs campaign for better terms and conditions with the 
undoing of FEMPI legislation and to calls on the Minister for Health to engage with the 
stakeholders to ensure that practices remain open, new doctors are recruited to ensure  

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 11.03.19 

that practices remain viable and that patients do not have to travel long distances for 
GP appointments”. 

2.12 Cllr. T. Forde: 

"I propose that this Council write separately to RTE, Eurovision Song Contest Ireland 
and the Irish performers, calling on all participants not to play any part in the 2019 
Eurovision Song Contest, due to be held in Israel, until Israel recognises equal rights 
for Palestinians and observers international law." 

2.13 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“That this Council considers in view of the many housing applicants, that the Council is 
not in a position to provide a social house for at present, would therefore develop a 
more direct link with letting agencies to find out what accommodations are available to 
rent within the HAP income guidelines and as far as possible which landlords will 
accept HAP.  As many applicants are under severe pressure and are often stressed 
trying to find a suitable place to rent”. 

2.14 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“That this Council calls on the Minister for Social protection to abandon the costly 
piecemeal practice to reviewing all those affected by the 2012 pension rules changes 
and to reinstate the old criteria of the pre-change State pension while developing a 
mechanism to backdate the full arrears to those pensioners affected” 

2.15 Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin: 

"This Council acknowledges the large number of homeowners in County Wexford who 
are currently experiencing mortgage distress. It welcomes the passing of the first stage 
of the ‘No Consent, No Sale" legislation in Leinster House which prevents banks selling 
home mortgages to vulture funds without the consent of the borrower/home-
owner. This council is calling on all T.D.s to facilitate the speedy passage of the bill 
through the remaining legislative stages".   

2.16 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“That this Council calls on the government to reverse the decision by revenue 
to impose VAT at 23% on Food supplements from health stores”. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Aibreán, 2019. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
