 County Council Meeting 14.02.2020 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Friday 14th February, 2020 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In The Chair: 

Cllr.  M. Sheehan, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors:   

P. Barden 
A. Browne 
K. Codd-Nolan 
M. Farrell 
W. Kavanagh 
G. Lawlor 
B. Murphy 
F. Staples 

M. Bell 
C. Byrne 
A. Connick 
J. Fleming 
L. Kelly 
L. McDonald   
J. O’Rourke   
J. Sullivan 

A. Bolger  
G. Carthy 
D. Devereux   
J. Hegarty 
D. Kenny 
J. Moore 
F. Ó Súilleabháin 
O. Walsh 

P. Breen 
J. Codd 
A. Donohoe 
D. Hynes 
G. Laffan 
B. A. Murphy 
J. Owens 
M. Whelan 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
T. Larkin, E. Hore, E. Taaffe, C. Godkin, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary, Ms. E. 
Hore, Head of Enterprise 

1.  Presentations to the Council – Social Innovation Fund Ireland – John Evoy 

     Wexford Local Enterprise Office (LEO) 

Social Innovation Fund Ireland – John Evoy 
Ms. E. Hore, Head of Enterprise introduced John Evoy, Social Innovation Fund Ireland who made 
a presentation to the members. The presentation which had been previously circulated briefed the 
members on the role of the Social Innovation Fund and the types of projects which they support.  

Following the presentation the members of the Council took part in a questions and answers 
session relating to the detail of the funding available and type of projects for which application 
could be made.  

Ms. E. Hore thanked John Evoy and advised that the staff in LEO office are available to assist 
members with regard to specific projects.   

Wexford Local Enterprise Office (LEO) 

Ms. E. Hore, Head of Enterprise then gave a presentation, as circulated, about the Local 
Enterprise Office and the services it offers for small businesses. A number of issues such as the 
voluntary social enterprise programme and the targeting of areas such as the green agenda were 
raised by members and these were answered by Ms. E. Hore.  

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The  Cathaoirleach  then  congratulated  the  five  TD’s  recently  elected  for  the  Wexford 

constituency. He also congratulated all candidates who took part in the election.  

  Derek Kent who has been elected as vice-chairman of the Leinster Council of the GAA 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  New Ross Drama Workshops. 
  Joe Moffitt, New Ross who has recently been elected as President of the Veterinary Council 

of Ireland. 

  Wexford  County  Council  who  are  nominated  for  the  LAMA  award  for  their  Bee  Aware 

 County Council Meeting 14.02.2020 

Campaign.   

Cllr. T. Forde arrived at 3.01. 

  Joe Fallon, Architect, Bunclody who was nominated for an Architecture Practice of the Year 

Award in the Irish Construction Industry Awards. 

  Those  involved  in  the  opening  of  the  New  Ross  Bridge  which  had  been  featured  on  the 

Nationwide programme recently. 

  La Cote Restaurant which had been featured on television recently. 

Cllr. J Moore raised the issue of online abuse and intimidation of  elected representatives and 
those standing for election. 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

On the proposal of the Cathaoirleach seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty the Council agreed to forward a 
letter of comfort to the province of Hubei and Jiangxi which is at the centre of the recent 
Coronavirus outbreak.  

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Mr. Patrick (Pat) Quigley former Revenue Collector; 
  The family of Maura Carthy, mother of Michael Carthy, Roads Foreman in the Wexford 

District; 

  The family of Pat Donoghue brother of Dick Donohoe (retired caretaker); 
  The family of Cecil Riddall, Templeshambo, Enniscorthy; 
  The family of Gerard (Ger) Lewis, Nenagh, Tipperary, father of Kevin Lewis, CEO, WWETB; 
  The family of Jimmy Hayes, Newbay, Wexford Town former Member of Wexford Borough 

Council. 

  The family of John (Sammy) Sinnott, Sinnott’s Pub, Duncormick; 
  The family of Evelyn Kehoe, Castlebridge, Wexford 
  The family of Jacinta Feeney, Upper John Street, Wexford 
  The family of Regina Laffan, Bosheen, New Ross 

2.  Confirmation of Minutes  

2.1 Special County Council Meeting – 13th January, 2020  

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Connick seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy and agreed by all the  
Council approved the minutes of the Special Council meeting held on 13th January, 2020. 

2.2  County Council Meeting- 13th January, 2020 

On the proposal of Cllr. BA Murphy seconded by Cllr. A. Connick and agreed by all the  
Council approved the minutes of the Council meeting held on 13th January, 2020. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.02.2020 

2.3 Special County Council Meeting – 20th January, 2020 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. K. Codd-Nolan and agreed by all the  
Council approved the minutes of the Special Council meeting held on 20th January, 2020. 

3.  Proposal to Declare a Road to be a Public Road Under Section 11 Roads Act 1993 

3.1 Creagh College Access Road L-5552-1 

Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services advised the meeting that the proposal had been approved by 
the Gorey Municipal District.  

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell seconded by Cllr. A. Bolger the proposal as submitted was 
agreed by the Council.  

4.  Audit Committee Charter  

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance then circulated the Audit Committee Charter which covers the 
operation of the Audit Committee and sought the formal approval of the Council for the Charter.  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan and seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor the Audit Committee 
Charter was approved by all.  

5.  Amendment to SPC Scheme 2019 - 2024 

Change of Cathaoirleach of the Economic Development & Enterprise SPC 

(Cllr. M. Whelan was nominated as Cathaoirleach to replace Cllr. M. Byrne at the January, 
2020 meeting of County Council) 

The amendment to SPC Scheme 2019 – 2024 was proposed by Cllr. J. O’Rourke and 
seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and agreed by all.  

6  2020 Annual Service Delivery Plan 

The adoption of the 2020 Annual Service Delivery Plan was proposed by Cllr. J. O’Rourke and 
seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by all.  

7  Filling of vacancy on Protocol Committee (following election of Malcolm Byrne to Dáil 

Éireann) 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Sullivan, seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan, Cllr. Pip Breen was 
nominated to fill the vacancy on the Protocol Committee and this was agreed by all. 

8  Filling of vacancy on AILG (following election of Malcom Byrne to Dáil Éireann) 

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan, Cllr. D. Kenny was nominated 
to fill the vacancy on the AILG.  

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.02.2020 

9 

Filling of vacancy on Transportation & Water Services SPC (following appointment of 
Cllr. M. Whelan to Chair of Economic Development & Enterprise SPC) 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan, Cllr. A. Bolger was 
nominated to fill the vacancy on Transportation & Water Services SPC and this was agreed 
by all.        

10 

Notification to the Council regarding  the new Cathaoirleach of Gorey-Kilmuckridge 
Municipal District (for noting) 

The Council noted that Cllr. J. Sullivan is the new Cathaoirleach of Gorey-Kilmuckridge 
Municipal District. 

11 

Return of Annual Declaration – Public Register of Interests (Ethics Register) 

The County Secretary reminded the members of the Council that their Annual Written 
Declaration (Ethics Declaration Forms) must be completed and returned to The County 
Secretary’s Office by Friday 28th February, 2020. 

12.   Report of Corporate Policy Group 

12.1    CPG meeting on 13.01.2020 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan the minutes of the 
CPG meeting held on 13.01.2020 were adopted  

12.2  CPG meeting on 03.02.2020 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke the minutes of the 
CPG meeting held on 03.02.2020 were adopted. 

Cllr. J. Fleming and Cllr. L. McDonald left the meeting at 4pm.  

13.  Chief Executive Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members. The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the Report 
including the following:  

  The lack of contact by Carlow I.T. with a landowner who had a site for sale which may 

be suitable for a new college in Wexford.  

Following discussion, it was agreed, on the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor and seconded by 
Cllr. L. Kelly that the President of Carlow I.T. be invited to the next meeting of Wexford 
County Council to explain the situation with regard to acquiring a site in Wexford for the 
purpose of the construction of a new Wexford Campus. 

  Loss of rent from vacant houses; 
  Update on Enniscorthy Technical Park; 
  The housing maintenance budget; 
  Street lights in Enniscorthy; 
  The use of local contractors for building projects; 
  Change of the housing programme; 
  Update on the appointment of a Heritage Officer; 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.02.2020 

  Update on Monck enhancement works; 
  Update on Curracloe Greenway; 
  Update on Euro Port Access roadway (Oilgate to Rosslare Harbour); 
  Speed limits 
  Flood defences in Enniscorthy; 
  Workshops for Town and Village renewal schemes; 
  Clarification of the cost of re-letting of vacant houses; 
  Actions arising from the survey of houses in Bunclody with regard to how they are 

disposing of their refuse; 

  Derelict Sites Register - The selection of five derelict sites in each Municipal District; 
  Public lighting in Fr. Murphy Park, Enniscorthy 
  Update on other Greenways; 
  Dog Fouling; 
  Street lighting; 
  The appointment of Contractors to carry out house building; 

Cllr. G. Carthy left the meeting at 16.46. 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services notified the meeting that the Council had received 
approval for €9m in respect of Wexford Flood Defence Scheme.  He also noted that the 
Enniscorthy Flood Scheme is awaiting Ministerial approval and is expected to start in the 
summer.  

The new road bridge near St. Senan’s is expected to begin at end of 2020 or early in 2021. 

14. List of Councillors Conferences and Training 

The list of Councillor Conferences and Training, as circulated, was proposed by Cllr.  B.A. 
Murphy and seconded by Cllr. J. Sullivan and agreed by all.  

The members also noted the conference reports submitted by Cllr. D. Hynes and  Cllr. G. 
Laffan.     

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor and seconded by Cllr. K. Codd-Nolan it was agreed that a 
delegation comprising of the Cathaoirleach, and the Mayor will visit Savannah. The purpose of 
the visit is to further the Council’s business links with Savannah and to promote the new 
educational facilities in Wexford Town.  

On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen and seconded by Cllr. A. Browne it was agreed that a 
delegation comprising of the Leas-Cathaoirleach and the Chair of New Ross Municipal District 
will visit New York.  The purpose of the visit is to take part in a regional economic mission with 
Kilkenny and Waterford County Council.  

15.  Minutes of Meetings 

15.1  Protocol Committee Meeting 23rd September, 2019 
15.2  Rosslare Municipal District – 16.12.2019 
15.3  Gorey Kilmuckridge Municipal District – 17.12.2019 
15.4  New Ross Municipal District – 11.12.2019 
15.5  Wexford Borough District – 16.12.2019 
 15.6   Enniscorthy Municipal District – 16.12.2019 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the proposal of Cllr. W. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny and agreed by all, the above 
minutes, as circulated, were noted and approved.  

 County Council Meeting 14.02.2020 

16. Sealing of documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted and approved. 

17. Correspondence and Communications 

Correspondence and Communications 
  Letter from Gerard Dollard, Chief Executive Officer, Irish Greyhound Board dated 9th 

January, 2020.  

  Letter from Paul McNally, Private Secretary, Department of Agriculture, Food and the 

Marine dated 31st January, 2020. 

  Email from Private Secretary to Minister for Health dated 5th February, 2020. 

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the members. Cllr. D. Hynes was not satisfied 
with the number of acute of beds for mental health beds in County Wexford.  

18. Deferred Notices of Motion 

18.1. Cllr. T. Forde 

“This council calls for a complete reform of the Direct Provision system and recognises that this 
system is inhumane and that people in this system lack access to basic necessities such as 
cooking, movement, and social requirements. 
We also ask that the Department of Justice closely liaise with Wexford County Council with regard 
to any form of direct provision or overflow facility in the county so that the local population can 
have an accurate information and understanding of what this entails.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all.  

19. Notices of Motion 

19.1  Cllr. L. Kelly 

“I would like to request that Wexford CoCo map all current defibrillator units in operation in Co 
Wexford and create a public awareness campaign on a district level around the locations of same.  
As part of this mapping exercise I would request that other key areas are identified where 
defibrillator could be installed.” 

The  above  motion  was  proposed  by  Cllr.  L.  Kelly  seconded  by  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor.  A  number  of 
members raised issues with regard to the mapping of the defibrillator units and the responsibility 
for advertising the locations of the units.  

The Chief Executive advised that he would check if there was a practical way of dealing with this 
motion and report back to the Council.  

19.2  Cllr. D. Hynes 

“That this council calls on the government to insure that whatever pension age is finally agreed  on 
ie 65-67 years of age , that it applies to everyone including members of the government and 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ministers. To end the scandal of ex ministers receiving pensions at 50 +!  And also that these gold 
plated pensions be done away with also”. 

The  above  motion  was  proposed  by  Cllr.  D.  Hynes  and  seconded  by  Cllr.  T.  Forde.  Following  a 
show of hands the motion was defeated. 

 County Council Meeting 14.02.2020 

19.3  Cllr. J. Moore 

'Wexford County Council requests the Department of Housing to introduce regulations, as a matter 
of urgency, whereby the Department or its agents, ie Private Residence Tenancy Board, 
implement robust controls on Private Landlords and their Tenants who reside in local authority 
estates. These regulations are required to counter anti-social behaviour when it is identified in their 
properties.' 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. F. Staples and agreed by all.  

20   Any Other Business   

Carolyne Godkin, A/Director of Services advised the meeting that a series of bye laws (see below) 
are being prepared for the Council and will come before the Council over the next number of 
months.  

-  Consumption of Intoxicating liquor in public places Bye-Laws 
-  Revision to Harbours and Piers Bye-Laws 
-  Revision to Open Burial Grounds Bye-Laws 

She also advised that there would be a community event in the Riverside Hotel on the 12th March, 
2020. 

Cllr. A. Connick noted that the new bridge in New Ross had been closed due to an orange weather 
warning and asked who had the authority to close the bridge. Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
advised that he had written to TII and a protocol is now being put in place with regard to the 
closing of the bridge.  

A speed Limit amendment in New Ross has been passed by New Ross Municipal District and will 
come before the full Council at the March, 2020 meeting.  

The Chief Executive then advised the Council that the motions passed by the Council are not 
automatically implemented. They must be lawful, must have resources and finance available.  

The County Secretary notified the members that he is the Returning Officer for the Senate 
Elections and that members will receive their voting papers on 16th March, 2020 and that the poll 
will close at 11am on 30th March, 2020.  

He advised the members that the vote must be made in the presence of the Returning Officer and 
that the ballot paper should not be filled in in advance.  

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.02.2020 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

Daingithe ar an 9ú la de Márta, 2020. 

________________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

_______________________ 
            County Secretary 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
