WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council 
held on Monday 14th September – 2.30 pm. 
in the Riverside Park Hotel, Enniscorthy. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. G. Carthy, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 
BARDEN 
BOLGER 
BREEN 

PAT 
ANDREW 
PIP 

DONOHOE 
FARRELL 
FLEMING 

ANTHONY  MCDONALD 
MARY 
JOHN 

MOORE 
MURPHY 

LISA 
JIM 
BARBARA-
ANNE 
BRIDIN 
JOHN 

MURPHY 
O'ROURKE 
O’SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAN 
OWENS 

JACKSER 

TOM 
FORDE 
AIDAN 
JOHN 
HEGARTY 
CATHAL 
JIM 
DAVID 
HYNES 
KATHLEEN  KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

BROWNE 
BYRNE 
CODD 
CODD-
NOLAN 
CONNICK 
ANTHONY  KELLY 
DEVEREUX  DIARMUID  KENNY 
LAFFAN 
LAWLOR 

LEONARD  SULLIVAN 
SHEEHAN 
DONAL 
GARRY 
WALSH 
GEORGE  WHELAN 

JOE 
MICHAEL 
OLIVER 
MICHAEL 

Officials: 
Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. A. McLoughlin, A/County Secretary 
Ms. E, Morrissey, County Librarian 
Mr. Noel O’Driscoll, Senior Engineer 

Apologies: 

Cllr Frank Staples, Cllr Maura Bell 

Expressions of Sympathy 

The Members extended sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Margaret (Gretta) Mythen, mother of Mary Prendergast, Finance Section and 

Katherine Mythen, Special Projects. 

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The family of Victor Devereux, father of Pat Devereux (recently retired Corporate Services). 
  The family of Caroline Power Murphy, sister of Ruth Power, Housing Section. 
  The family of Jimmy Curtis, Former Cathaoirleach and former Member of Wexford County 

Council. 

  The family of Martin Shalloe, Retired GSS, Wexford County Council. 
  The family of Tomas Kelly, brother of Adrian Kelly, Driver in the Machinery Yard and Library 

Service 

  The family of Kathleen Power, mother-in-law of Niall McCabe, A/SEO Housing Department 
  The family of  Mr. Joe Sinnott 
  The family of  Mr. Chris Hatchell of the Wexford London Association 
  The family of  Ms. Anne  Staples 
  The family of  Mr. Jim Watkins 
  The family of Mr. Jim Lee 
  The Fortune Family 
  The Keating Family 

Expressions of Congratulations 

Dean na Comharleoirí comhghairdeas ar na ndhaoine as seo a leannas: 

  Kilmore GAA who won two county titles in lady’s football and men’s hurling. 
  Castletown Junior GAA who won Gorey Minor match 
  Deputy James Browne, TD on his appointment as Minister of State at the Department of 

Justice 

  Wexford Shels on their recent win and the GAA for organizing matches in difficult times. 
  North End United on winning the junior match. 
  Ballyhogue GAA under 15’s and Ballyhogue ladies football on their recent wins. 
  Oulart / Ballagh GAA on wining the Senior Camogie Title 
  Crossabeg / Ballymurn GAA on their recent win 

1.  Public Consultation Process 

a.  Rosslare Harbour Access Road 
b.  Oilgate to Rosslare Harbour Scheme 

A  presentation  was  given  by  Mr.  Séan  Dobbs,  Project  Manager  with  TII  and  Mr.  Joe 
Shinkwin, Director, Mott McDonald Consultants regarding the public  consultation phase of 
Oilgate to Rosslare Harbour Scheme. The details of the next phase of the project were also 
outlined. 

Following  a  discussion  on  the  deadline  for  the  next  phase  to  be  complete  which  involves 
assessment  and  reduction  of  the  route  options,  it  was  advised  to  the  meeting  that  this 
would be ready in late February / March of 2021, a couple of weeks later than committed to 
at  the  June  council  meeting.  This  was  due  to  the  level  of  submissions  and  Covid  19 
restrictions. Mr. E Hore, Director of Services reiterated that the impact of Covid with regard 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  site  inspections  was  a  factor  in  this  three  week  delay.  An  Cathaoirleach  thanked  Mr. 
Dobbs,  Mr.  Shinkwin,  Mr.  N  O’  Driscoll  and  Mr.  E  Hore  for  their  work  in  progressing  this 
project. 

2.  Confirmation of Minutes 

County Council Meeting – 27th July 2020 
Proposed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. L McDonald and agreed. 

County Council Special Meeting – 27th July 2020 
Proposed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne and agreed. 

County Council Special Meeting – 5th August 2020 
Proposed by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne and agreed. 

Matters Arising 

In response to member’s queries, regarding the filling of vacancies on the recently 
established Mental Health Committee, Ms. C Godkin, Director of Services advised all 
members interested would be catered for. 

In response to a query regarding the progress of securing a University Campus for Wexford, 
the Chief Executive advised that there was ongoing dialogue on this matter. 

In response to a query on the next stage of the Development Plan Process, Mr. Tony Larkin, 
Director of Services advised that the A/ County Secretary has agreed to issue the 
amendments to the Draft Development Plan agreed at this morning’s County Council Special 
meeting to the members in the next day or two. 

3.  Proposal under Section 183 of the Local Government Act, 2001 

  Proposed intention to transfer 0.1 acres at Newtown Road to John O'Connor 

Statutory Notice having been served, and on the proposal of Councillor G Lawlor, seconded 
by Cllr. O’Rourke, the Members resolved to dispose of the lands in 
accordance with the Notice. 

  Proposed intention to lease Enniscorthy Courthouse. 

Statutory Notice having been served, and on the proposal of Councillor G Lawlor, seconded 
by Cllr. O’Rourke, the Members resolved to lease the Courthouse  in accordance with the 
Notice. 

  Proposed disposal of land at Ballyverneen, Co. Kilkenny. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Notice having been served, and on the proposal of Councillor G Lawlor, seconded 
by Cllr. O’Rourke, the Members resolved to dispose of the lands in accordance with the 
Notice. 

4. 

Local Property Tax (LPT) - local variation factor decision 

Following consideration of the report of Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance in respect of the 
Variation of the Local Property Tax for 2021 a discussion took place. The Chief Executive 
reiterated the importance of agreeing this increase in order to support the Economic and 
Community development programme that the council was pursuing. 

On the proposal of Cllr Barbara Anne Murphy and seconded by Cllr M Sheehan it was agreed 
that the LPT tax would be increased by 10% of the 201 base figure which in effect results in 
no change from 2019. This involved a vote and it was agreed by the majority of the 
councilors present with 3 voting against this increase. 

The councilors extended their thanks to the staff of Finance Section and also asked that an 
updated leaflet on the Capital Projects in the County would be issued to all households. 

5.    

Budget 2021 - Proposed Meeting Dates 

On the proposal of Cllr Michael Sheehan and seconded by Councillor Pip Breen the proposed 
dates as circulated by the Head of Finance were agreed. 

2021 Budget Process – Proposed Schedule 

1  Public Consultation on LPT Variation 

2  LPT Variation Decision of Council  

3  Budget Strategy  - Consultation Meeting with CPG/Cross 

Party 

4  Adoption of Draft Budgetary Plan (GMA Allocations) – 

Municipal Districts 
Prescribed Period 14th October 2020 to 15th November 2020 
Must be completed 10 days before the Statutory Budget 
meeting 

2020 Dates  

July/August 

Monday 14th September, 
2020 
Monday 2nd November, 2020 
at 11.30am 

October 2020 
MD meetings 

5  Statutory Budget Meeting 

Meeting to Consider and adopt Draft Local Authority Budget 
Prescribed period 1st November  2020 to 30th November 2020 

Monday 30th November, 
2020 
at 10.00 a.m. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Traveller Accommodation Programme 2019-2024 - Update to Members 

Director of Services Ms. Carolyne Godkin brought a progress report on targets set out in the 
Traveller Accommodation Programme 2019 -2024 to the members and advised that for the 
current year it was expected that 1 of the 20 proposals included in the programme would be 
delivered. She also agreed to a review of the plan before the end of next year which may 
cause some figures to change. 

7.  Adoption of Wexford County Council Library Development Plan 2020-2025 

Director of Service Ms. Carolyne Godkin welcomed Eileen Morrissey, County Librarian 
to the meeting. She advised the members that this plan had been approved by the SPC 
in February and the delay bringing it to full council was a result of Covid restrictions.  

A number of the members and the Chief Executive extended their thanks and praise to 
the library staff for the ongoing work that the library Services have been doing. In 
particular the continuation of their services during Covid using different service delivery 
methods was to be commended. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M Sheehan and seconded by Cllr Barbara Anne Murphy this plan 
was adopted by the Council 

8.  Chief Executives Report 

The Chief Executive Mr. T Enright presented the Report and together with the members of 
the Management Team responded to a number of queries from the Members, including the 
following: 

Courtown Leisure Centre Liquidation and effect on local jobs. 
Carrigfoyle Activity Centre – progress  
Enniscorthy Technology Park – Builders  
Delay Templeshannon Regeneration 
Restart Grants Delay in paying – Large Volume of Grants 
Progress New Fire Station in New Ross 
Diary 1919-21 – Will it be made available to the Library 
Number of School Traffic Wardens – Under Review 
Update on Waterford to Rosslare Greenway 

8.1 
8.2 
8.3 
8.4. 
8.5 
8.6 
8.7 
8.8 
8.9 
8.10   Use of CCTV for Litter Prosecutions – GDPR Test Case Kerry Co. Co. 

Cllr M Sheehan, in relation to the Restart Grant and the subsequent Restart Grant Plus, 
which has resulted in a number of clients being unable to qualify for the original scheme due 
to deadlines, asked that Wexford County Council write to the Tánaiste to consider accepting 
applications now for the Restart One grants. The Head of Finance advised that the 
Department will pay people if they appeal this deadline. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  List of Councillors' Conferences and Training 

This list was agreed by the members. 

 

July /August – AILG 2020 Module 3 “Moorhead Report- A Briefing for Elected Members” 

  17th September 2020 – Training webinar for Local Authority Elected Members – Guidance 
for Councillors on the initial stages of Preparing the Development Plan and their Core 
Strategies. 

10. Report of Corporate Policy 

The report of the CPG meeting held on the 7th September 2020 was noted. 
On the proposal of Barbara Anne Murphy and seconded by Cllr G Lawlor this report was 
agreed. 

11. Sealing of Documents 

On the proposal of Cllr A Browne, seconded by Cllr P Barden these were agreed. 

12. Correspondence and Communication 

A number of items of correspondence were circulated to the members and were noted. 

  Correspondence from IT Carlow re: acceptance of invitation 7th August, 2020 for 

noting. 

  Acknowledgement email from Minister's Office Simon Coveney T.D., dated 10th 
August, 2020 and Correspondence from Nora Delaney, Private Secretary to the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs dated 24th August, 2020. 

  Acknowledgement email from Patrick McCabe, Private Secretary to the 

Minister for Justice and Equality dated 13th August, 2020. 

  Correspondence from Padraig Corkery, Meetings Administrator, Kerry County 

Council dated 14th August, 2020. 

  Letter from Irish Water dated 24th August, 2020. 
  Acknowledgement letter from Karen Henry, Private Secretary to Minister Heather 

Humphreys dated 25th August, 2020. 

  Email from Mr. Eamon Ryan, TD, Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport dated 

2nd September, 2020. 

  Email from Derek Newcombe, Private Secretary to Ms. Norma Foley dated 2nd 

September, 2020 & 3rd September, 2020. 

  Letter from Minister Heather Humphreys TD dated 2nd September, 2020. 
  Email from Leo Quinlan (Commandant - retired) dated 2nd September, 2020 
  London Wexford Association News Update

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14th September 2020 

13. Notices of Motion 

o  Cllr. L. McDonald and the following Members (FF} Cllr. A. Browne, Cllr. B.A Murphy, 
Cllr. M. Sheehan, Cllr. J. Fleming, Cllr. M. Whelan, Cllr. A. Bolger, Cllr. D. Kenny, 
Cllr. J. Sullivan, Cllr. G. Laffan, Cllr. P. Breen, Cllr. W. Kavanagh 

"That Wexford Co Council call on the government to amend the remit of Irish Water to fund 
County Councils to allow them to deal with, increase capacity in and manage rural waste 
water systems in our rural villages to protect the survival and growth of rural Ireland." 

This proposal was amended by Cllr. L McDOnald to state that this motion applied to villages with 
under 3,000 population. With this amendment the motion was passed on the proposal of Cllr 
McDonald, seconded by Cllr P Barden. 

It was also agreed to send a copy of this motion to all councils. 

o  Cllr. L. McDonald 

"That Wexford Co Council call for a variation of the national broadband plan to allow for the 
role out of high speed broadband in rural Ireland and areas which have poor broadband first 
and before the larger towns due to the challenges faced in working from home for those with 
poor connectivity to break down the digital divide. " 

On the proposal of Cllr McDOnald and seconded by Cllr C Byrne this motion was passed. 

o  Cllr. G. Lawlor 

"It the context of the Covid 19 pandemic and its impact on workers and their working 
patterns this council commits to establishing a task force to examine the best ways for Co. 
Wexford to exploit the possibilities of remote working and working from the home to the 
benefit of workers and potential workers across the County". 

On the proposal of Cllr G Lawlor and seconded by Cllr L Kelly this motion was passed. 

o  Cllr. M. Sheehan 

"That this Council calls on the Government to immediately reverse its policy of discrimination 
against Older People by the refusal to include over sixty sixes in the pandemic unemployment 
payment and in the design of the Stay and Spend Scheme which will automatically rule out 
many pensioners whose income is below the tax net." 

On the proposal of Cllr Sheehan seconded by Cllr A Bolger this motion was passed.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.09.20 

o  Cllr. T. Forde 

"I ask that Wexford County Council work to introduce a Choice Based Letting Scheme 
in 2020 which would allow housing applicants to express an interest in a property 
that matches their needs in any area. The scheme is being successfully used by other 
Local Authorities at present and was included in the Government Action Plan for 
Housing and Homelessness (2016)" 

As Cllr Forde had to leave the meeting before this motion was discussed he had asked 
that this motion be withdrawn and resubmitted for the October meeting. 

o  Cllr. F. O'Suilleabhain 

"This Council recognises the huge growth that has been seen this year in camper van 
/ motorhome-related tourism. It further acknowledges the huge benefits that this 
form of tourism can bring to an area and that it is a central part of the tourism 
infrastructure in many countries as well as being a generator of revenue for local 
authorities". 
This Council will resolve to identify sites in Co. Wexford on which we can develop 
motorhome/camper van parks". 

Following a discussion regarding this motion and following advice from the Chief Executive 
that this was not a service that fell within the remit of Local Authorities in Ireland. Cllr. 
O’Suilleabhain agreed to change the motion.  

The amended motion includes the support of the council for Camper Van tourism through 
a grant system to facilitate private developers and support of the council through the 
planning process and in the identification of sites. 

This amended proposal of Cllr O'Suilleabhain was agreed and seconded by Cllr J Codd. 

o  Cllr G. Laffan 

"That this council write to the Minister & Department of Defence and request that the 
veterans of Jadotville be awarded the medals recommended by their commander 
Commandant Pat Quinlan. In September 1961, 155 Irish Troops on a UN Mission and 
stationed at Jadotville were attacked by anywhere from 3,000 to 5,000 Katangese Troops 
supported by Foreign Mercenaries. They held out for five days and only lack of 
ammunition and water forced them to surrender. Commandant Pat Quinlan’s Defensive 
battle at Jadotville is now studied at Military Academies all over the world. Commandant 
Quinlan recommended the following medals for his Soldiers -five men for the Irish 
Army’s Highest award the Military Medal for Gallantry.- 27 men for the Distinguished 
Conduct Medal. 

None of these medals were ever awarded. Only 7 of the 32 Men are still alive. A 
Jadotville Medal was awarded in 2017 but this was not the Bravery Awards as 
recommended by Comdt Quinlan. We would ask the Government to immediately award 
all medals to the Jadotville Men while they are still 
alive." 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.09.20 

On the proposal of Cllr Laffan and seconded by Cllr M Sheehan this motion was carried. 

14. 

Any Other Business   

In response to a request from Cllr Connick regarding the status of defibrillators around the, 
Ms. Godkin agreed to bring a report to the next meeting. 

This concluded the Business of the Meeting. 

Daingithe ar an  12ú   lá de  Deireadh Fomhair, 2020. 

________________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
County Secretary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
