County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 11th June, 2018 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

M. Byrne; 
T. Dempsey;   
T. Forde; 
R. Ireton;  
J. Moore; 
L. McDonald;  

P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
J. O’Rourke;   
M. Whelan. 

J. Sullivan;  

G. Carthy; 
A. Donohoe;   
W. Fitzharris;  
P. Kavanagh; 
B.A. Murphy;  
L. O’Brien;  
M. Sheehan;  
O. Walsh; 

K. Codd-Nolan;  
K. Doyle; 
J. Fleming;    
W. Kavanagh;   
M. Murphy; 
O. O’Connell; 
F. Staples;  
T. Walsh; 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. N. O’Driscoll, Senior Engineer, Roads; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  

Apologies:   

Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services.  

1.  Presentation by ESB Networks: 

The presentation was made by Carmel O’Connor, Divisional Manager, and Dan Mernagh, 
Area  Manager  of  ESB  Networks.    The  presentation  concentrated  on  the  upgrade  and 
supply  of  electricity  in  County Wexford  and the  capacity  of  existing  ESB  supplies to  deal 
with future demand including business demand.   

Part  of  the  presentation  also  dealt  with  the  emergency  response  to  Storm  Ophelia  and 
Storm Emma and the role played by the ESB. The presentation also highlighted the close 
working  relationship  between  the  ESB  and  Wexford  County  Council  in  dealing  with 
emergency situations on the ground. 

Members asked a number of questions including the following: 

  The upgrade and supply for Ashfield Cross 
  The supply of electricity to south east Wexford 
  Long term energy security and the need to have a mix of supply sources 
  Broadband  to  rural  areas  and  the  assistance  of  local  providers  in  providing 

broadband to those areas. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

  Regard for design of steel ESB poles. 
  Capacity in the New Ross area. 
  The upgrading of poles and pylons. 
  The lack of services in New Ross. 
  Additional lights on the N25. 
  The need for adequate electricity to service Templeshannon regeneration project.  
  Proposal  for  a  supply  of  electricity  from  Normandy  to  south  east  Ireland  to  make 

use of surplus nuclear energy in Normandy. 

  The switching off of electricity supplies from windmills. 
  Guidelines  for  solar  energy  and  non  use  at  present  of  water  energy  to  supply 

electricity. 

The  representatives  from  ESB  Networks  answered  the  questions  put  by  the  Councillors 
and advised that any major project in the pipeline should be notified to the ESB to ensure 
that  there  would  be  a  supply  available  to  service  such  projects.    The  earlier  such 
information is given to the ESB the more able it will be to include extra developments in its 
planning process. 

The  Chief  Executive  thanked  the  ESB  Networks  for  their  update  and  advised  that  the 
Council has an ambitious economic programme which will require power supply.  He gave 
special thanks to Dan Mernagh for the excellent relationship between the ESB crews and 
WCC  crews  on  the  ground.    He  noted  that  the  ESB  had  worked  very  hard  to  deal  with 
power outages during the recent storms and this was much appreciated by the people of 
County Wexford. 

Finally the Cathaoirleach thanked the ESB Networks for their presentation.   

The Cathaoirleach then welcomed a number of visitors to the Council Chamber.  

2.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1 County Council Meeting – 14th May, 2018. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B. A. Murphy seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed by all the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

Cllr. J. Fleming asked that a query with regard to a report on solar farms which he raised 
during  the  Chief  Executive’s  Report  in  the  May  2018  Meeting  should  be  included  in  the 
minutes and this was agreed. 

Cllr.  M.  Sheehan  asked  that  the  options  regarding  solar  farms  should  be  included  in  the 
report.  T.  Larkin,  Director  of  Services,  advised  that  there  is  no  legal  authority  to  refuse 
planning  applications  but  he  will  address  the  options  available  with  regard  to  planning  in 
his report. 

Mr.  T.  Larkin,  Director  of  Services,  advised  that  his  department  is  working  on  the  report 
and will have it finalised for the July 2018 County Council Meeting.  

Cllr. A. Connick left the meeting. 

Cllr. D. Hynes brought up the issue of deferred motions and noted that there was little time 
to discuss motions under the current set-up and this needs to be reviewed. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

Cllr. P. Breen asked if the bill for Storm Emma in the sum of €2.89m for roads had been 
paid  to  date.    N.  O’Driscoll,  Senior  Engineer  advised  that  the  bill  has  not  been  paid  and 
that there is no indication yet from the Department of the amount to be paid. 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of George Williams, father of Laura Williams (retired) and father in law of 

Anthony Nolan, Water Services and Paula Shortall, Finance Dept 

  The family of Peter Molloy, husband of Josephine Molloy, Insurance Risk Management 

and brother in law Shirley Berry, Credit Control. 

  The family of Ned Dempsey, father of Lillie O’Brien, Environment Dept 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  The  Kilrush  Camogie  U14  team  who  shared  the  honours  in  the  recent  John West 

Feile na nGael Final 

  2500  women  who  took  part  in  the  strip  and  dip  charity  event  in  Co.  Wicklow  and 

also broke the Guinness World Record. 

  Those  involved  in  the  recent  official  launch  of  The  Hatch  Lab  in  Gorey.  The 

Cathaoirleach thanked the Members of the Council who attended the launch. 

  The organisers and participants of the Wexford Food Festival 
  The organisers and participants of the Wexford Marathon. 
  Ballycogley Players on their second time winning a National Drama award. 
  The Cathaoirleach thanked the Planning Department of Wexford County Council for 
the launch of Pool Pad at Ferrybank Swimming Pool. Pool Pad is a pool lift which 
allows easy access and egress to the pool for persons with mobility issues.  

  The  recent  launch  of  E-Parking  by  the  Roads  Department  of  Wexford  County 

Council. 

  The launching of tri bikes in JFK Arboretum which will be used for access by those 

with disabilities. 

  The  induction  of  the  latest  batch  of  Wexford  Ambassadors  –  Tadhg  Furlong,  Dr. 
David  Dempsey,  James  O’Connor,  Mark  Redmond,  Ryan  Quigley  and  Eamonn 
Sinnott. 

3.  Section 85 Agreement between Kildare County Council and Wexford County 

Council regarding rehabilitation works on Ferrycarrig Bridge (WX-N11-002.00) 
and Glebe Bridge (WX-N11-003.00): 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the Section 85 Agreement 
as submitted to the meeting was agreed. 

3 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

4.  County Wexford Road Traffic Special Speed Limit Bye-Laws 2018: 

They County Wexford Road Traffic Special Speed Limit Bye-Laws 2018 were proposed 
by Cllr. P. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed by all. 

The Cathaoirleach noted that there is an in built review of 12 to 18 months contained in 
the bye-laws.  Noel O’Driscoll, Senior Engineer, advised that the bye-laws will come 
into operation in September 2018 and that the review will then be carried on over the 
coming months. 

A number of issues were then discussed including whether speed limit signage in 
housing estates will apply to all housing estates in the county. 

Concerns regarding the speed limit increase on Ferrycarrig Bridge and the moving of 
speed limits in Tagoat were also raised.  The need for speed limits for some of the 
narrow streets in Wexford Town was also mentioned. 

Noel O’Driscoll, Senior Engineer, advised that the Roads Department are looking at all 
housing estates in the county: there are over 1000 estates and speed limits will be 
applied to these estates on an ongoing basis. 250 of these housing estates have been 
included in the first tranche of the project. 

The Cathaoirleach noted that much of the discussion was in respect of items that will 
be included in the review.  

5.  Local Authority Funding (Baseline) Review Group: 

The  Head  of  Finance  circulated  a  draft  response  to  the  call  from  the  Department 
regarding  a  new  methodology  for  the  allocation  of  funding  to  local  authorities.    She 
asked  that  the  Members read  the  document and  come  back  to her  with  any  changes 
they propose prior to 25th June 2018.  This will allow for the document to be amended 
and sent onto the Department by the due date. 

Cllr. F. O’ Súilleabháin arrived. 

A number of issues were raised regarding what could be raised in the draft response 
including the following: 

  A  method  to  include  online  shopping  in  the  payment  of  rates  to  counter  the 

effect of online retail shopping 

  Using  turnover rather than  property  values  to  assess  rates  due by  businesses. 
The  Head  of  Finance  noted  that  this  was  being  factored  into  the  review  of 
valuation. 

  The  use  of  AIRO  and  the  reports that  have  been  published  recently  as  part of 
the  assessment.    The  Head  of  Finance  advised  that  she  intends  to  send  the 
indexes of each of the six AIRO reports to the Department for consideration.  

6.  The River Basin Management Plan for Ireland 2018-2021 Update: 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, advised that the report and presentation had been 
circulated  to  the  Members  of  the  Council  to  update  them  on  the  River  Basin 
Management  Plan.    He  advised  that  the  full  report  is  available  for  Members  if  they 
require it and that an Executive Summary is also available.   

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

The Director noted that following the consultation phase, the River Basin Management 
Plan  for  Ireland  2018-2021  has  now  been  published.  Local  Authorities  are  currently 
finalising a recruitment drive for 35 scientists to action the objectives of the Plan. 
Questions  raised  by  the  Members  with  regard  to  the  detail  of  the  Plan  included  the 
following, which were answered by the Director. 

  Fluoride in drinking water 
  Community monitoring by citizen scientists in Duncannon 
  The power of the recently appointed scientist to bring in policy.  

7.  Chimney Fires in Council’s Housing Stock: 

Reports  prepared  by  the  Chief  Fire  Officer  and  Housing  Maintenance  Engineer  in 
respect  of  chimney  fires  in  Council  houses,  were  circulated  to  the  Members.  Arising 
from  these  reports,  the  Director  made  a  number  of  recommendations,  including  the 
Council cleaning chimneys in estates where there is a high incidence of fires.   

The Director also noted that the maintenance of chimneys is an item contained in the 
Housing  Handbook  for  tenants.  He  proposed  that  a  pilot  education  programme  be 
introduced in Enniscorthy to educate communities how to properly dispose of plastics. 

The  Director  advised  that  there  will  be  quarterly  review  meetings  to  assess  the 
effectiveness of the chimney cleaning programme. 

Members then raised a number of questions which were responded to by the Director. 

It  was  noted  that  a  recent  report  on  major  fires  in  London  stated  that  many  fires  are 
caused by appliances supplied by a particular company. The Director agreed to check 
with the Chief Fire Officer if Wexford County Council was using those appliances. 

The Director also advised that the Safety Leaflets were provided to all tenants of Local 
Authority  Houses.    It  was  noted  that fire  incidents  in  County Wexford  are  higher than 
the norm for the rest of the country and there was higher incidence in particular areas 
in County Wexford. 

Discussion then took place on whether Council tenants should be charged where two 
or  more  chimney  fires  take  place  at  the  one  premises,  as  is  the  case  for  private 
houses. 

Discussion also took place with regard to Carbon Monoxide Alarms with a suggestion 
that the provision of carbon monoxide alarms for Council houses should be included for 
funding in the 2019 budget.  The number of fires in Bunclody was also discussed. 

The  Director  agreed  that  Fire  Services  and  the  Housing  Department  will  look  at  the 
concerns raised by the Members and advise on appropriate action.   

The  matter  of  Fire  Reports  and  whether  they  put  forward  the  reason  for  the  fire  was 
also  discussed.    Cllr.  L.  O’Brien  asked  that  the  matter  of  charging  local  authority 
tenants  where  two  chimney  fires  take  place be  referred  back  to  the  Housing  SPC  for 
further consideration and revert to the full Council. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

8.  Traveller  Accommodation  Programme  2014-2018  Wexford  Local  Authorities 

Proposed Amendment: 

Mr.  J.  Carley,  Director  of  Services,  advised  that  as  decided  at  the  previous  Council 
meeting he had gone back to the Borough District of Wexford to discuss the proposed 
amendment  to  the  Traveller  Accommodation  Programme  2014-2018.    Following  a 
review  of  the  case  it was  noted  that  the  housing  needs of  two  of  the  applicants  have 
now changed and the amendment is no longer a suitable housing solution for the family 
and the amendment is now withdrawn. 

This  was  agreed  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  J.  Moore  seconded  by  Cllr.  R.  Ireton  and 
agreed by all.  

Discussion then took place on anti-social behaviour in Local Authority Estates.  It was 
noted in one particular instance in Wexford Town that a trailer load of rubbish had been 
left outside a house and that when the Council cleaned the area up another trailer load 
then arrived.   

The  matter  of  dealing  with  anti-social  behaviour  cases  on  a  legal  basis  was  then 
discussed.  The  Director  advised  that  under  the  Council’s  ASB  Policy  a  number  of 
cases  are  going  through  the  process  and  that  he  would  check  the  particular  case 
brought up by the Members. 

The  Chief  Executive  then  advised  that  he  can  understand  the  frustration  of  the 
Members  and  he  confirmed  that  staff  are  dealing  with  these  issues,  which  involve 
criminal elements in some cases.  He also noted that the Council is going in to clean up 
waste and that it would be hoped that they could charge the tenants for the clean-ups, 
where appropriate. 

Further discussion then took place regarding the appropriate legislation to use in anti-
social  behaviour  and  waste  problems.    A  number  of  cases  in  New  Ross  were  also 
highlighted  and  the  Members  generally  sought  a  stronger  and  tougher  approach  to 
anti-social behaviour in Council housing estates.  

9.  Healthy Ireland Programme Draft Wexford Healthy County Plan 2018-2020:  

The Healthy Ireland Programme Draft Wexford County Plan 2018-2020 was circulated 
to the meeting. 

The Plan was proposed for adoption by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan 
and agreed by all.  

10. Representative from Wexford Chamber of Commerce to the LCDC: 

Mr.  J.  Carley,  Director  of  Services,  advised  that  it  was  proposed  that  Madeleine 
Quirke’s seat on the LCDC be taken by the new Chief Executive of Wexford Chamber 
of Commerce Enda Kavanagh. 

6 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This was approved by the CPG at their meeting on 5th June 2018.  On the proposal of 
Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Farrell  it  was  agreed  that  Enda  Kavanagh  be 
formally approved for membership of the LCDC.  

County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

11. Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The Report of Corporate Policy Group of 5th June, 2018 was noted by the meeting.  

12. Chief Executive’s Report 

The  Chief  Executive’s Report was  considered  by  the  Members.   The  Chief  Executive 
and  Members  of  the  Management  Team  responded  to  Members queries  arising  from 
the report including the following: 

  The Town and Village Renewal Scheme 
  The  time  limit  of  59  weeks  for  turnaround  of  Capital  housing  applications  to  the 

Department of Environment 

  The Rosslare to Waterford Greenway 
  The  coming  into  effect  of  litter  bye-laws.  The  Director  noted  that  the  draft  waste 
bye-laws have been presented to the Municipal Districts and will be included on the 
agenda for the July 2018 County Council meeting. 

  Conservation  of  heritage  buildings  in  particular  Rams  House  in  the  outskirts  of 

Gorey 

  Housing at Marconi Park 
  Better  communication  with  witnesses  in  court  cases  giving  evidence  on  behalf  of 

the Council 

  Bus shelter in Oylegate 
  AIRO Report based on 2016 Census  

13.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

 

Invitation  to  New  Ross  Town  Council  to  attend  the  O’Neill  Festival,  Danville, 
California 

The  list  of  Councillors’  Conferences  and  Training  and  the  invitation  to  attend  the 
O’Neill  Festival,  Danville,  California  were  proposed  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  seconded by 
Cllr. J. O’Rourke and agreed by all. 

  Report of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, Leas Cathaoirleach of WCC following attendance 

at the 16th Venice Architectural Biennale 2018  

The Members noted the report.  

14. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan, and agreed by all the 
Members present the following minutes were noted and approved: 

14.1 

Gorey Municipal District Meeting 17.04.18 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

14.2 
14.3  
14.4  

New Ross Municipal District Meeting 11.04.18 
Borough District of Wexford Meeting 16.04.18 
Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting 16.04.18 

15. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted.  

16. Correspondence and Communications 

  Correspondence from Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice and Equality 

in relation to the Criminal Justice Act 2016 

  Acknowledgement from Private Secretary to the Minister for Housing, Planning 
& Local Government in relation to the Housing Assistance Payment and the 
housing list. 

  Email from Kevin Sharkey regarding Irish Presidential race.  
  Email regarding Make Way Day – Wednesday 26th September 2018.  

The correspondence outlined above was noted by the Members. 

It was agreed that Kevin Sharkey, Irish Presidential candidate be invited to address the 
Council. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne it was agreed that the 
Council would take part in the Make Way Day on Wednesday 26th September 2018. 

17. Deferred Notices of Motion: 

17.1  

Cllr. Malcolm Byrne 

“Given the continued efforts of the Department of Local Government to undermine local 
authorities and the increased centralisation of power in Ireland, this Council calls on the 
government to establish an independent convention on the future of local government, 
that will examine powers, autonomy and funding.  

In the event of the failure of government to act, this Council calls on LAMA and the 
AILG to establish such a convention and to seek cross party support.  

This motion to be circulated to all other local authorities in the State and to request that 
a similar motion be adopted.” 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh and 
agreed by all.  

17.2 

Cllr. Martin Murphy 

“That this Council calls on the Government to ban the erection of election posters 
during our tourist season "April through September" in order to avoid damaging the 
appearance of our Cities, Towns, Villages and countryside during the main tourist 
season”. 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Murphy seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and 
this motion was defeated. 

17.3 

Cllr. David Hynes 

“I call on the Council to look again the method adopted by this Council regarding rates 
on properties uses  by charities  whereby the charities in question have to go to the 
Valuation Office to get a waiver to exempt  them for the proposes of paying rates. This 
is causing major concern to the bona fide charities in Wexford as many of the charities 
are being told they still have to pay”. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that a report from the Head of Finance had been presented 
to the CPG and he felt that this should be reported to the Members of the Council in 
respect of this motion.   

The Head of Finance proposed that, following concerns raised by Cllr. Hynes in his 
deferred the motion regarding the fee payable by charities to have their properties 
revalued, Wexford County Council will make application on behalf of the charities and 
pay the appropriate fee to have them assessed for valuation.  She pointed out that the 
retail element of charities is liable for rating or part rating depending on the scale of 
their retail activities.  Cllr. D. Hynes withdrew his motion.  

17.4 

Cllr. Ger Carthy 

“I call on this Council to immediately reverse the decision of the executive not to gift a 
small area of land to the Irish Coastguard for the purpose of the construction of a new 
purpose built station in Kilmore Quay. This decision has put the entire project in 
jeopardy”.  

Cllr. G. Carthy withdrew this motion. 

17.5 

Cllr. Lisa McDonald 

“That this Council is disappointed with the withdrawal of the offer on an agreed site in 
Kilmore Quay to the OPW for our Coast Guard (one of our 4 primary response 
agencies) and hereby directs Wexford County Council to re-engage with the Coast 
Guard and the OPW with the view to making the transfer of land as soon as 
practicable”. 

Cllr. L. McDonald withdrew this motion.  

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

18. Notices of Motion: 

18.1 

Cllr. Jim Moore 

“That Wexford County Council submits the following proposals for consideration by the 
Department of Environment and the Minister as part of the current review of the Litter 
Act that 
(a) where littering from a vehicle is committed the owner is subject to the penalty points 
system, and  
(b) where illegal dumping is committed that the vehicle is impounded under the 
customs office regulations”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and 
agreed by all. 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services agreed to bring a report to the July 2018 meeting of 
the Council regarding CCTV and littering.  

18.2 

Cllr. Jim Moore 

“WCC embarks on a programme of using electrically powered vehicles as part of its 
fleet upgrade activity. Also to carry out an audit of Council vehicles to determine how 
many could be electrically powered”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Moore seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and 
agreed by all. 

18.3 

Cllr. Tony Walsh 

“That this Council calls on the Government to immediately support the plight of 
Community Employment Scheme Workers who have been denied the prospect of 
receiving a pension on retirement in spite of a Labour Court recommendation in 2008 
that they be granted same”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Walsh seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen and 
agreed by all. 

18.4 

Cllr. Tom Forde 

“I call on this Council to write to Minister of State for Defence, Paul Kehoe, to express 
disappointment and frustration regarding the purchase and upgrade of UVA's  
(drones) from an Israeli company. And to request that the Department stop purchasing 
these weapons systems and all forms of military equipment from Israeli companies as 
they are live tested on civilians by a state that has killed many unarmed protesters, 
including children, journalists and doctors”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes. 

Following discussion, Cllr. Forde agreed to defer the motion to the next meeting to 
allow for further consideration of the wording of the motion.  

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 11.06.18 

19. Any Other Business   

The Cathaoirleach advised that the presentation of certificates to previous Cathaoirligh 
of Wexford County Council will take place at 5.30 p.m. in the Street.  

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Iúil, 2018. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
