 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 8th July 2019 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In The Chair: 

Councillor M. Sheehan 

Councillors:  

P. Barden; 
C. Byrne;  
A. Connick; 
J. Fleming; 
L. Kelly; 
L. McDonald;  
J. O’Rourke;   
F. Staples; 

P. Breen; 
J. Codd; 

M. Bell; 
M. Byrne; 
D. Devereux; A. Donohoe;   
T. Forde; 
D. Hynes; 
D. Kenny;  G. Laffan; 
J. Moore; 
F. O’ Súilleabháin;   
J. Sullivan;  O. Walsh; 

B.A. Murphy;  

A. Browne; 
K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell; 
W. Kavanagh;
G. Lawlor; 
B. Murphy; 
J. Owens; 
M. Whelan. 

Officials: 

Messrs: T. Larkin, D/Chief Executive, 
E. Hore, J. Carley, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing & Community; 
Mr. P. Collins, Meetings Administrator; 

Apologies:   

Councillors G. Carthy; J. Hegarty. 
Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive. 

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed members of staff who were attending the Council 
Meeting. 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Joey Mullins, Wexford 
  The family of Michael Harper, Whiterock View, Wexford  
  The family of Tom Furlong, St. Aidan’s Villas, Enniscorthy 
  The family of Johnny Ryan, Clonmines, Wellingtonbridge 
  The family of Sarah Robinson, Gorey 
  The family of Ronnie Coughlan, mother of Liz Coughlan, Print Room 
  The family of Timothy Burns, father of Liz Burns, Arts Officer 
  The family of Jim Ryan, father of Anne Marie Mullally, New Ross MD 
  The family of Mark Redmond, former employee 
  The family of Vera O’Hara, mother of Anthony O’Hara, Firefighter, Gorey Fire Service 
  The family of Breda Barry, mother of Gretta Barry, Local Charges Unit 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Wexford’s Senior and Minor Hurling Teams and Ladies Football Team on winning the 

Leinster Finals and the best of luck to the U20 Team in the U-20 Hurling Championship 
Final next week. 

  Michelle O’Neill from Enniscorthy who was the Linesperson in the recent Women’s 

World Cup Final – it was agreed to afford her a civic reception 

  Congratulations to all of the recent nominees for the AIMS awards including Oyster Lane 

who won the award for Best Overall Show. 

  The St. Joseph’s Football team and St. Ibar’s Camogie team, both of whom were 

successful in the recent Féile 

  The new RNLI lifeboat which will service the east coast from Clogher Head, Co. Louth. 
  The New Ross Pipe Band for their recent success in the European championship. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 13th May, 2019. 

On  the  proposal of  Cllr.  A.  Connick  seconded  by  Cllr.  L.  McDonald  and  agreed  by  all, 
the Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

1.2 Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council – 14th June, 2019. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne  and  agreed  by  all,  the 
Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

1.3 Special Meeting of Wexford County Council – 14th June, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. W. Kavanagh seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed by all, 
the Council approved the minutes of the meeting as outlined above.  

2.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

2.1 LAC 1905 – The development of a public realm area to include Norman Gardens.  

Create formal planting patterns consisting of a variety of hedges, aromatic plants and 
herbs.  A series of faceted gardens from the space between the paths and negotiate 
the topography.  Footpaths and pathways connecting the River Barrow to St. Mary’s 
Church of Ireland.  Shared surfaces, to improve pedestrian access and movement.  
Public resting Nodes-incorporating seating at The High Hill, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

The Chief Executive’s Report had been circulated to the Members previously and Mr. E. 
Taaffe,  Director  of  Services,  gave  a  synopsis  of  the  public  realm  development  at  the 
High  Hill,  New  Ross,  Co.  Wexford.    He  noted  that  there  were  a  small  number  of 
submissions which had been dealt with in the Chief Executive’s Report. 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Whelan seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming LAC1905, as 
presented, was agreed by the Council. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

3.  Formation of Sub-Committees 

The Cathaoirleach proposed that the following sub-committees should be set up and 
aligned to the appropriate SPC’s – this process will take place over the Summer, with 
nominations to serve on the sub-committees to be decided in the autumn. 

  Revitalising Rural Wexford Sub-Committee 
  Healthy County Committee 
  Rosslare Port Committee 

The Cathaoirleach also sought the agreement of the Council that a sub-committee be 
set up to deal with St. Stephen’s Cemetery.  On the proposal of Cllr. M. Farrell seconded 
by Cllr. M. Byrne the Council agreed to set up the four sub-committees as proposed. 

4.  Nomination to the Future Skills Forum 

The Cathaoirleach sought the agreement of the Council to nominate a Member of the 
Council the Future Skills Forum and this was agreed by the Council on the proposal of 
Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy. The formal nomination will be made by 
the Council in the autumn. 

5.  Draft Traveller Accommodation Programme 2019-2024 

The final draft Traveller Accommodation Programme 2019-2024 had been circulated to 
the Members In addition, a memo from the Chief Executive was circulated, setting out 
the background and development of the Programme with a recommendation that the 
Council adopt same. 

Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing, highlighted the main points of the Chief Executive’s 
Report and advised that one submission had been received from a traveller group which 
had been incorporated into the Programme.  He also pointed out that the Council had 
exceeded their targets with regard to Traveller accommodation over the past 5 years. 

The Programme proposes that 20 offers of accommodation will be made to Traveller 
families each year between 2019 and 2024.  The majority of traveller families have 
expressed a preference for local authority housing with only four families looking to be 
housed in a group scheme. 

A number of Members then contributed to a wide ranging discussion covering issues 
raised by the Programme. Following discussion the Draft Traveller Accommodation 
Programme 2019-2024 was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. O’Rourke 
and agreed by all. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

6.  Housing First Initiative 

Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO, Housing, then presented details of the Housing First Initiative, a 
copy of which had been circulated to the Members.  The Initiative deals with the housing 
of rough sleepers and will be run by Focus Ireland who won the tender for the project. 

Under the Initiative, rough sleepers will be accommodated in the Wexford Town area 
where a full care package is available to cater for the needs of people who are sleeping 
rough.  The first tenancies will be made in the next few weeks and Wexford County 
Council will be licencing six properties to accommodate rough sleepers.  

Questions raised by Members were answered by the Senior Executive Officer, Housing 
and the Initiative was then noted and approved by the Council. 

7.  Local Authority Housing Estate Awards 2019 

Copies of the Local Authority Housing Estate Awards Scheme 2019 had been circulated 
to the Members. It was noted that the closing date for applications is 31st July 2019 and 
that the Scheme includes each of the 5 Municipal Districts.  The Scheme was noted by 
the Members.  

8.  Fix date of Special Housing County Council Meeting (proposed 30.09.19) 

On the proposal of Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. J. Owens it was agreed that a 
Special Housing County Council Meeting will take place on 30th September 2019 at 2.30 
p.m. 

The Cathaoirleach then advised that another Special Meeting with regard to Climate 
Change is scheduled to take place at the end of January 2020 and details will be 
circulated to Members in due course.  

9.  Wexford County Council Housing Tenant Handbooks 

The two handbooks had been circulated to the Members – Information Handbook for 
Tenants and Home Maintenance Handbook for tenants.  These handbooks have also 
been circulated to all Local Authority tenants.  It was noted that the handbooks had been 
checked for plain English to ensure that it could be well understood by all reading it. 

Members welcomed the new handbooks and sought clarification on a number of points 
with regard to maintenance.  Mr P. O’ Gorman, Senior Executive Officer, Housing, noted 
the points made by the Members and agreed to take the comments on board for 
consideration in future versions of the handbooks.   

He also reminded Members that the handbooks had already been circulated to the 
tenants - while it is a good start, the maintenance of Council housing stock and tenant 
responsibility for home maintenance will be constantly under review.  He noted that the 
Council has 8,500 requests annually for maintenance and operates a priority rating 
scheme with repairs and maintenance with a high priority given to electrical faults 
reported. 

The Council noted the new handbooks and the remarks of the Housing Officer. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

10. Community Based Facilities Grant Scheme 

The Scheme, which had been circulated to the Members, was presented by Ms A. 
O’Neill, Head of Finance and she highlighted the main points of the Scheme.  The report 
set out the background and the need for a Scheme and the various steps taken prior to 
the production of the final draft of the Scheme.   
Queries from a number of Council Members were dealt with by the Head of Finance.  
She highlighted the need to strike a balance between supporting the good work being 
done by charities and the need to address the concerns of other ratepayers. 

The Community Based Facilities Grant Scheme was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne 
seconded by Cllr. D. Devereux and agreed by all.  

11. Draft SPC Scheme 2019-2024 

The County Secretary advised that the Draft SPC Scheme 2019-2024 had been 
circulated to the Members and will now go for public consultation.  He requested that 
Council Members send in their preference for which SPC they would like to serve on.   

It was also noted that Cllr. D. Hynes would now sit on the County Wexford Drugs Task 
Force and he will replace Cllr. P. Barden on that committee.  This proposal was 
seconded by Cllr. J. Owens and agreed by all. 

Cllr. D. Hynes thanked Cllr. P. Barden for his generous gesture to allow him to sit on the 
County Wexford Drugs Task Force. 

12. Draft Corporate Plan 2020-2024  

The County Secretary advised that the Draft Corporate Plan 2020-2024 is being 
prepared at present and that the public consultation phase is now in place.  On the 
proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. P. Breen it was agreed to go ahead with the 
public consultation phase. 

13. Report of Corporate Policy Group 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group held on 1st July 2019 was proposed by Cllr. J. 
O’Rourke seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and agreed by all. 

14. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The D/Chief Executive 
and Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the 
report including the following: 

  Taking in Charge of Estates 
  Noise on the Main Street and the need for bye-laws to regulate noise in public 

areas 

  Length of waiting time for pre-planning meetings 
  Rates revaluation 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

  Whether Wexford County Council had made submissions in respect of application 

for foreshore investigation of sites for wind farms at Bannow Bay 

  Bye-laws for drinking in public places 
  The need for the carrying out of an audit for the size of ballot boxes required in 

various polling stations following the difficulties with voting at the Local Elections 
  An update on the discussions with regard to the Dun Mhuire Theatre in Wexford  
  The resurfacing and drainage of the N11 at Ballinaslaney, Oylegate 
  The appointment of a Heritage Officer 
  A bus service from Enniscorthy to Waterford 
  The rates relief scheme 
  Update on Dun Mhuire  
  The Head of Finance then advised the Members that the Council had been given 

permission to go ahead with finalising loan applications received under the 
Rebuilding Ireland Housing Loans Scheme.  

The Council are now in a position to move on with applications on hand which 
have been processed, but not finalised. The Council will also accept new loan 
applications. It is expected that the Council will spend approximately €7.5m on 
these housing loans in 2019 

15. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training 

  Report of Cllr. W. Fitzharris to New York. 

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded 
by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by all. 

The Members also noted the report of Cllr. W. Fitzharris. 

16. Minutes of Meetings: 

16.1 Borough District of Wexford 15.04.19 
16.2 Gorey Municipal District 16.04.19 
16.3 Enniscorthy Municipal District 15.04.19 
16.4 New Ross Municipal District 10.04.19 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  A.  Connick  seconded  by  Cllr.  G.  Lawlor  and  agreed  by  all  the 
Minutes outlined above were noted and approved. 

17. Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted and approved. 

18. Correspondence and Communications 

  Wexford PPN Report 08.05.19 
  Correspondence from Minister for Health re HSE Recruitment 
  Correspondence  from  Minister  of  Transport,  Tourism  &  Sport  re  abuse  of  disabled 

parking 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

  Correspondence from Minister of State for Mental Health and Older People re Mental 

Health Sub-Committee Report 

  Correspondence from Minister for Health re INMO 
  Acknowledgement  from  Minister  for  Employment  Affairs  and  Social  Protection 

regarding pensions in relation to CE Supervisors 

  Acknowledgement  from  Minister  for  Employment  Affairs  and  Social  Protection 

regarding pensions  

  Acknowledgment from Office of Minister for Housing, Planning & Local Government 
regarding transfer of management and completion of water services connections. 
  Acknowledgement  from  Minister  for  Business,  Enterprise  and  Innovation  re  small 

businesses in the villages of rural Ireland 

  Acknowledgement  from  Minister  for  Health  concerning  a  second  cat  lab  for 

Waterford University Hospital. 

  Acknowledgement  from  Minister  for  Health  concerning  the  Standing  4  Women 

Campaign 

  Correspondence from Minister for Health concerning the new Children’s Hospital 
  Correspondence  from  the  Office  of  the  Minister  for  Business,  Enterprise  and 

Innovation regarding small businesses in the villages of rural Ireland.  

The correspondence outlined above was noted.  

Cllr.  T.  Forde  advised  that  he  was  unhappy  with  the  response  from  Minister  Jim  Daly 
with regard to the mental health sub-committee report which had been furnished to him.  
It  was  agreed  to  circulate  a  copy  of  the  report  to  the  new  Members  of  the  Council  for 
their information.  

At this point a number of Council Members left the meeting – Cllr’s J. Owens, D. Hynes, 
J. O’Rourke and F. Staples. 

19. Notices of Motion 

19.1 Councillor F. Ó Súilleabháin  

"That Wexford County Council follows the example of neighbouring Wicklow and 
declares a Climate and Biodiversity Emergency and that we sign up to the Global 
Mayors Covenant". 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. F. Ó’ Súilleabháin seconded by Cllr. T. Forde 
and agreed by all.  

19.2 Councillor G. Lawlor 

In the context of the declaration of a Climate Emergency and in support for the 
enhancement of pollinators and biodiversity Wexford Co. Council commits to the 
following measures throughout Co. Wexford; 

(A) The creation of wild flower gardens in and on suitable green areas.  

(B) The planting of native heathers, native shrubs and wildflowers on all our 
roundabouts and verges throughout the County.  

(C) Support the creation of allotments in our towns and villages.  

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

(D) The building of ‘bug hotels’ on many of our public green areas and parks using the 
skills of the various Men’s Sheds in our communities.  

(E) The complete adherence to the ban on the cutting of hedgerows during the 
proscribed nesting season except in the case of proven road safety requirements. 

(F) The complete banning of the use of ‘Round Up’ as a means to control vegetation.  

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne.  
Following discussion with regard to a number of the items raised by Cllr. Lawlor it was 
agreed to refer the motion to the SPC for further consideration and to revert to the full 
Council in due course. 

19.3 Councillor T. Forde 

"I call on Wexford County Council to cease its use of and to prohibit the use of round up, 
glyphosate-based weedkillers and other toxic herbicides in all public places including 
public footpaths, road verges, play areas, council estates and parkland/amenity areas" 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde – it was agreed to refer this motion to 
the SPC for further consideration.  

19.4 Councillor M. Byrne 

That Wexford County Council,  
- makes a focused effort between now and year end to tackle derelict buildings in our 
County and ensures that all necessary powers, including but not exclusively dereliction 
levies, planning requirements, safety orders, compulsory purchase orders, are employed 
to address this scourge. 

- provides that a detailed report on progress form part of the Chief Executive's Report 
each month. 

- calls on the Minister for Housing and Local Government to increase the dereliction levy 
to 10% of market value annually and to introduce measures to grant local authorities 
more powers to tackle dereliction." 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. F. Ó’ Súilleabháin 
and agreed by all.  

19.5 Councillor A. Browne 

“That Wexford County Council,  in keeping with Ireland’s ratification of the U.N. 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (U.N.C.R.P.D.), adopts a policy 
that any new playgrounds or playgrounds undergoing renovation will serve as inclusive 
playgrounds, meet the principles of universal design and allow children of all abilities to 
play together through “side by side play”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. A. Browne seconded by Cllr. L. McDonald and 
agreed by all.  

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

19.6 Councillor D. Hynes 

“This Council calls on the Minister for Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport is Shane 
Ross, TD. to insure that the necessary  legislation is put in place ASAP to properly 
regulate the Gray Hound industry in light  of the revelations that were made known in the 
recent  RTE program. Which highlighted the whole scale culling of unwanted 
greyhounds ( 6,000 annually)  and the over breeding with no thought given to these 
animals only the maximum profit of the industry. Also ban the exportation of Irish 
greyhounds to jurisdictions that do not meet Irish animal welfare standards and make 
the IGB responsible and accountable for enforcing and policing this ban”. 

As Cllr. Hynes was no longer in attendance the motion fell. 

19.7 Councillor T. Forde 

"I call on Wexford County Council recognise the importance of protecting our 
biodiversity and to create a new Biodiversity Action Plan to update and to entail new 
initiatives to improve upon the current plan which is dated 2013-2018" 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed 
by all. 

20. Any Other Business   

Cllr. L. Kelly highlighted the case of Amy Richards who, following a general anaesthetic, 
had to sit her Leaving Cert exam  - her only other option was to repeat the exam later in 
the year. This was as a result of a decision by the Examination Commission.   

On the proposal of Cllr. L. Kelly seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne it was agreed to send a 
letter to the Examinations Commissioner and the Department of Education to highlight 
this case and this was agreed by all. 

Cllr. M. Byrne then raised the issue of invitations to the opening of the Enniscorthy By-
Pass and asked that the opportunity of the opening should be used to highlight the need 
to complete the Oylegate to Rosslare motorway route as a matter of urgency. 

Cllr. D. Devereux raised an issue with regard to the assembly of a site Anne Street, 
Wexford. He understood that correspondence had recently been sent to the Chief 
Executive and he wished to bring this to the attention of the meeting. 

Mr. T. Larkin, D/Chief Executive, advised that the Chief Executive’s Office had received 
the correspondence and noted that Wexford County Council had spent a considerable 
amount of time on this matter previously.  He had carried out a thorough investigation 
into previous correspondence and had answered all of the questions raised by the 
correspondent at the time.   

The D/Chief Executive confirmed that the Chief Executive had met the correspondent 
recently.  

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 08.07.19 

Cllr. Mary Farrell advised that the wording of the document is quite serious and that the 
recent FOI has thrown up further evidence and she would feel more comfortable if the 
document submitted was dealt with now. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that he would hope that a response could be given to the 
Council in September 2019 or as soon as possible thereafter. 

A number of Councillors then expressed the view that this issue should be put to bed, 
that it had been dealt with previously by the Council, and that the matter had been 
examined extensively at the time and the process was now complete.  

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

_______________________  
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an 9ú la de Mean Fómhair, 2019. 

________________________ 

Cathaoirleach 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
