Special County Council Meeting 14.06.19 

 WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Friday 14th June 2019 – 12 noon  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In The Chair: 

Councillor M. Sheehan 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
J. Codd; 

P. Barden; 
C. Byrne;  
A. Connick; 
J. Fleming; 
W. Kavanagh; 
G. Lawlor; 
F. O’ Súilleabháin;  J. Owens; 
O. Walsh; 

M. Bell; 
G. Carthy; 
D. Devereux; A. Donohoe;   
T. Forde; 
L. Kelly; 
L. McDonald; B.A. Murphy;  

J. Hegarty; 
D. Kenny; 

M. Whelan. 

F. Staples; 

A. Browne; 
K. Codd Nolan; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Laffan; 
B. Murphy; 
J. Sullivan; 

Officials: 

Messrs: T. Enright, Chief Executive, 
T. Larkin, E. Hore, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services;  
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, A/Director of Service; 
Mr. P. Collins, Meetings Administrator; 
Mr. David Minogue, Communications Officer. 

Apologies:   

Councillors J.  Moore; M. Byrne; J. O’Rourke 

Expressions of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Pat Walsh, father of Dan Walsh, reporter, Enniscorthy 
  The Byrne family, Bunclody on the death of their father, Sean 
  The Kennedy family on the death of Simon Kennedy, Duncannon 
  The Mythen family of Blackwater father of Mary Prendergast and Katherine Mythen 
  The family of Ned Wheeler, Wexford Town 
  The family of Maurice Connolly, New Ross. 
  The family of Jimmy Henneberry, New Ross. 

1.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

1.1 LAC1903 

Wexford County Council is proposing to develop a Rape Crisis Centre on a site situated 
at Maudlintown, Wexford. The development will consist of a 2 storey building, 
approximately 206m2 and will be located along the entrance to the Rocks, Maudlintown, 
Wexford. Accommodation will comprise of counselling rooms with administration and 
ancillary spaces, with two walled exterior spaces and car parking spaces @ The Rocks. 
Maudlintown, Wexford 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 14.06.19 

Mr.  T.  Larkin,  Director  of  Services,  outlined  the  background  to  the  development  at 
Maudlintown, Wexford which was supported by a number of Members from the Wexford 
District  present  at  the  meeting.    The  Chief  Executive  thanked  the  Members  for  their 
support and advised that the current Rape Crisis Centre premises at Clifford Street are 
not  suitable  for  their  needs.    He  also  advised  that  a  suitable  philanthropic  person  will 
greatly assist with the funding of the project.   

A Section 183 Notice will come before the Council in the future to formally transfer the 
land  to  the  Rape  Crisis  Centre.  The  Chief  Executive  advised  that  funding  of  €2m.  has 
been received for extra housing units for the Women’s Refuge which will be built on the 
site adjacent to the Rape Crisis Centre. It is hoped that the Rape Crisis Centre project 
will  be  completed  by  the  end  of  this  year,  with  the  Women’s  Refuge  development 
scheduled for completion by the end of 2020. 

LAC1903 was proposed by Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan and agreed by 
all. 

1.2 LAC1904 

Refurbishment of Gate Lodge (former Wexford County Council Offices) for use as 
residential accommodation. This is a Protected Structure (WBC0035) @ Gate Lodge, 
Spawell Road, Wexford. 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, outlined the background to the refurbishment of the 
Gate Lodge at the former County Council Offices at Spawell Road, Wexford. These 
offices will be refurbished to make student accommodation for use by students who will 
be taking their places in the Georgia Southern University in Ireland in September 2019.  
He advised that is a very good use of a heritage building.   

Mr T. Enright, Chief Executive, added that he is excited about the opportunity presented 
by this development and he hopes that it will grow and expand over the years.  He also 
reiterated that the student accommodation will provide affordable accommodation for 
students and will bring this old building back to life.   

He added that there are other much larger projects in town where it is hoped that, with 
the assistance of partners, older buildings can be brought back into use and he will 
come back to the Members with further details as the projects progress  

Members present welcomed the project and queries were raised with regards to the cost 
of the work and who would be paying for the works.  Mr. T. Larkin advised that Wexford 
County Council would be doing the initial work but will be leasing the premises to the 
college and that over a period of time the lease will cover the cost.  Similarly the college 
will pay for accommodation over time and the costs that Wexford County Council will 
incur will be recouped over time.   

Wexford County Council will be paying the upfront costs and the Chief Executive 
advised that the cost to Wexford County Council is modest, there will be a 10 year lease 
and will lead to increased student activity in Wexford.  It will also help to provide 
business opportunities whereby companies from Wexford will link with companies in 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 14.06.19 

Savannah, a process that is happening already and that the education and business 
opportunities will bring huge benefits over time. 

Cllr. L. Kelly asked who will manage the development and asked that an audit be carried 
out of any other historical buildings in town which could be used for similar purpose.  
The Director advised that the property department of the Council will manage the 
property.  The buildings which the Council are currently engaged in talks with the 
owners are all privately owned. The Director stated that he could not give out that 
information at the present time as he is in discussion with these parties, but will be back 
to the Council if proceeding with any of the projects. 

LAC1904 was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed by all.      

2.  Approval of Community CCTV Schemes 

Approval of Community CCTV Schemes in Courtown/Riverchapel, New Ross, 
Enniscorthy and Bunclody, as per the report circulated by the County Secretary and 
which had been approved by the Joint Policing Committee was then proposed by Cllr. A. 
Donohoe seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and agreed by all.  

3.  Any Other Business 

Mr. P. O’Gorman, A/Director of Services, circulated an invitation to members for the 
official opening of a number of housing schemes in Co. Wexford as follows: 

  Baile Eoghain, Gorey  
  Willow View, Castlebridge 
  Rath an Dúin, Castlebridge  
  Rosetown, Rosslare 
  Ard Uisce, Whiterock Hill, Wexford  

Eoghan Murphy T.D., Minister for Housing, Planning & Local Government will perform 
the official openings of these housing projects on Friday 21st June 2019. 

Discussion regarding the housing situation in Wexford then took place with many 
members congratulating the Housing Department for exceeding their housing targets. 

Responding to criticism of the number of houses built by Wexford County Council, the 
Chief Executive pointed out that the renting of houses owned by housing bodies and 
turnkey purchases by the Council had contributed significantly to the reduction of 
numbers on the Housing List. He also pointed out that funding has not been an issue. 

On the proposal of Cllr. L. McDonald seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor it was agreed that a 
Special Meeting of Housing will take place, the date for such a meeting will be set at the 
July 2019 meeting of the Council. 

New Ross Port – Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, then updated the Members on the 
current position regarding the transfer of New Ross Port to Wexford County Council.  He 
advised that it is a state owned port which is operated independently.  A number of 
Ministers are currently signing documents with regard to the transfer and the Director 

3 

 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 14.06.19 

advised that the transfer may well happen before the July 2019 Meeting of the Council.  
The transfer will involve the transfer of assets and liabilities, staff etc. to Wexford County 
Council and the Port in New Ross will carry on as normal over the summer while 
arrangements are put in place with regard to the long term operating of the Port. 

The Director advised that negotiations had gone well with Waterford Port and that 
Wexford County Council will have responsibility for the land assets including the oil 
tanks on the entrance to New Ross.  It is likely that the Council will bring in bye-laws to 
cover the harbour.  It is also likely that the Council will enter into a management 
agreement with the Port of Waterford to run the day to day operations of the Port.  An 
ongoing financial plan will be put in place.  A number of Members expressed their views 
on this issue welcoming the news and looking forward to the oil tanks being removed.  
They stressed the importance of a commercial plan and the Cathaoirleach asked that a 
report be brought to the Municipal District if the transfer occurs before the July 2019 
Meeting.  

Cllr. M. Whelan asked a number of questions with regard to staffing and contractors 
currently employed by the New Ross Port.  The Chief Executive advised that all these 
matters are now under review but would not be concluded until such time as the transfer 
takes place and he advised that there may be changes in the future. 

Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, advised that shipping will continue in New Ross 
Harbour for vessels carrying less than 4.5 tonnes and all of the shipping contractors in 
New Ross expect that there will be modest increases in business in the future.  The 
Director also advised that a business plan is being developed and that the Chief 
Executive of the Port will come to a meeting of the Council later in the year to update the 
Members on the shipping operations in the harbour. 

Cllr. G. Carthy raised a number of issues with regard to the responsibility for driving 
business in New Ross and he noted that he would be against the transfer of the site 
after the summer to Waterford Port and would only be inclined to sign a contract for the 
operations for a period of 12 months.   

Mr T. Larkin, Director of Service, clarified that the status quo would remain in place and 
that it would be business as usual on the transfer day. He agreed to report back to the 
Council in July 2019 with regard to discussions taking place with regard to the future 
management and operation of the port. 

The Chief Executive advised that the Council is complying with government policy set 
out in the National Port Study to transfer Tier 3 Ports back to Local Authorities. The 
Council will not be handing over the running of the port to Waterford; instead, it will use 
Waterford’s piloting skills and experience to operate in New Ross Port. The future 
development of the Port will be a matter for Wexford County Council. The Chief 
Executive also advised that the Council is looking at a proposal of having one Port 
Authority for the South East.   

The Chief Executive also noted that Kilmore Quay needs major investment as a 
harbour, but not as a Port. Following a question from Cllr. A. Donohoe regarding the 
costs and liabilities of the Port, Director T. Larkin advised that the costs at this point 
were unknown but that he was of the opinion that the operation of the Port would be 
more or less self-funding and that the cost of removing the tanks were unknown at this 
point. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 14.06.19 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

Daingithe ar an 8ú la de Iúil, 2019. 

_______________________  
County Secretary 

________________________ 

Cathaoirleach 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
