County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 8th May, 2017 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. P. Kavanagh, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
P. Breen; 
T. Dempsey;   
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton; 
L. McDonald;  
L. O’Brien; 
M. Roche; 
D. Wadding;   

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
A. Donohoe,   
J. Fleming  
W. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
O. O’Connell; 
M. Sheehan;  
O. Walsh; 

G. Carthy; 
K. Doyle, 
J. Hegarty,  
A. Kelly;  
BA Murphy,    
J. O’Rourke   
J. Staples                 J. Sullivan; 
M. Whelan. 

A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
M. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Ms. A. M. Colfer, Finance Dept; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary; 

Apologies:   

Councillors K. Codd Nolan; M. Murphy. 

2.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

2.1County Council Meeting – 10th April, 2017. 

On the proposal of Councillor B.A. Murphy, seconded by Councillor R. Ireton and agreed by all, 
the Council approved the minutes of the County Council Meeting held on 10th April, 2017.   

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their votes of sympathy to the following: 

  The family of Jim Reidy, husband of Sinead Casey, District Manager, New Ross 

Municipal District.  The Cathaoirleach spoke on behalf of all the Councillors to offer his 
sympathy to Sinead and to offer prayers and good wishes to her.  The Chairman of New 
Ross MD, Councillor M. Whelan added his sympathy on behalf of the New Ross District. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

Congratulations 

The Members expressed their congratulations to the following: 

  Wexford Opera House on winning an international award for Opera Festivals 
  Bunclody/Kilmyshall Drama Group for their success in the All Ireland Drama Festival 
  The organisers of the Darkness Into Light event 
  Wexford Sports and Classic Car Club for the recent event in New Ross 
  Green Ribbon Mental Health Campaign event held in Campile, New Ross 

It  was  agreed  on  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  R.  Ireton  to  send  a  get  well  letter  to  Michael  Sills, 
President of the London Wexfordmen’s Association. 

It was agreed to take Item No. 15 next on the agenda. 

15. Presentation by Tommy Kelly former Principal Enniscorthy ETB – Third Level Facility 

at St. Senan’s: 

Mr.  Kelly  gave  his  vision  of  a  multi-purpose  educational  campus  at  St.  Senan’s  Enniscorthy 
which  would  include  the  location  of  a  University  of  the  South  East.    Mr.  Kelly  circulated  the 
attached proposal which sets out the main points of his presentation to the Council.   

Following  the  presentation  the  Cathaoirleach  addressed  the  meeting  and  highlighted  that 
Wexford  was  losing  out  nationally  in  terms  of  education.  He  was  particularly  concerned  that 
County  Wexford  produces  10%  of  food  produced  nationally,  but  that  only  one  course  on 
agriculture is currently available in the county.  

He  further  noted  that  a  third-level  campus  at  St.  Senan’s  would  be  a  boost  to  the  local 
economy, but would also provide a cheaper option for students in terms of accommodation. He 
supported  the  concept  of  a  multi-purpose  campus  and  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  H.S.E. 
should  hold  off  the  sale  of  St.  Senan’s  for  two  years  to  allow  for  the  development  of  the 
proposal. 

Members contributed to a wide ranging debate covering many of the issues raised by Mr. Kelly 
in his presentation, including the following: 

  Cost of sending children to college 
  Smart farming 
  Working with contacts in Savannah to develop the proposal 
  Student accommodation/retail outlets on campus 
  Third level participation deficit in County Wexford 
  Need for Technology University 
  Low  access  to  third  level  education  for  citizens  of  County  Wexford  identified  in  the 

A.I.R.O. Report. 

  Strategic Plan for Third-level facility already in place 
  Equine Development Centre 
  Expansion of the range of Apprenticeships available. 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  K.  Doyle,  seconded  by  Cllr.  P.  Breen  and  agreed  by  all  Members 
present,  it  was  proposed  to  write  to  the  Minister  for  Health  and  the  HSE  to  request  them  to 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

defer the sale of the property at St. Senan’s, Enniscorthy, to give breathing space to allow for 
the development of a South East University and multi-purpose campus on the site. 

At 3.50 p.m. the Chairman left the meeting and the Leas Chathaoirleach Cllr. M. Whelan took 
the Chair.  

1.  Presentation – Public Consultation on the River Basin Management Plan for Ireland 

(2018-2021): 

Mr. G. Forde, Senior Engineer, Mr. B. Cooney, Executive Scientist, Anne Phelan and Fran 
Igoe, both from the Local Authority Waters & Communities Office, then joined the meeting. 

Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services, gave a presentation to the meeting, a copy of which had 
previously been circulated to the Members.  Following a number of questions from 
Councillors present, Fran Igoe explained the process for public consultation and hoped that 
the consultation would be as widespread as possible. 

On the proposal of Councillor M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe the Members 
agreed to go the public consultation phase of the River Basin Management Plan 2018-
2021.  

3.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1  Proposed  lease  of  land  at  Camolin,  Gorey,  Co.  Wexford,  to  Camolin  Community 
Development Association. 

3.2 Proposed  transfer of  land  at  Mount  Carmel,  New  Ross,  Co. Wexford  to  the  Electricity 

Supply Board. 

On the proposal of Councillor R. Ireton seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne the Members agreed to 
the  proposed  disposal  of  land  as  outlined  at  3.1  and  3.2  above  in  accordance  with  the 
notices circulated.  

4.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, Article 

81, of the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

4.1 LAC1702 – The proposed erection of a single storey dwelling house with associated 
site works and connection into existing services at Castlemoyle, Healysland, New Ross, 
Co. Wexford. 

The Members noted the report of Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive dated 28th April, 2017. On the 
proposal of  Cllr  R.  Ireton,  seconded  by  Cllr.  A.  Donohoe  the  Members agreed  and  approved 
the proposed development as outlined in the report. 

5.  Variation No. 2 to Enniscorthy Town and Environs Development Plan 2008-2014 (as 

extended): 

The members considered the proposed Variation No. 2 to the Enniscorthy Town and Environs 
2008 – 2014 (as extended) and on the proposal of Cllr. K. Doyle seconded by Cllr. B.A. 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Murphy resolved to proceed to the public display and consultations required under Section 
13(2) of the Planning and Development Act 2000 (as amended) 

County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

6.  2016 Annual Financial Statement and Head of Finance Report: 

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance, presented the 2016 Annual Financial Statement and Report to 
the Members and highlighted a number of issues contained in the Report. 

In particular she reported that there was a surplus of over €800,000 for the 2016 financial year 
in the revenue account. 

She also noted that the Council would be writing down the specific Revenue Reserve Transfer 
against the revenue account. Together with the 2016 end of year surplus and the Reserve 
Transfer, the Council’s overall revenue balance stands at €5.3m at the end of 2016. 

She further advised that the formal approval of the Members is required in accordance with 
Section 104 of the Local Government Act 2001 for additional expenditure shown on the table in 
page 9 of the report.  In additional approval for the budget adjustment in respect of road grants 
of €4.376m is required. 

The Head of Finance also reported on the capital account and debt management.  Members 
then raised a number of issues including the following: 

  The welcome reduction in the Council’s Revenue deficit 
  The delay in recoupment of monies from the Department of Environment regarding 

house purchases. 
The Head of Finance agreed that the Council is not in a position to carry capital 
expenditures on the purchase of houses, as it would require an extension of the 
Council’s overdraft. 

  The requirement for improved collections in respect of rents 
 
Items of overspend – consultancy on wind farms and piers 
  Rates collection 
  Cost of consultants for monitoring of noise windmills and wind farms 
  The effect of the additional expenditure on Municipal District Budgets 
  The spending of the traveller accommodation budgets  
  Festivals and concerts 

In accordance with Section 104 of the Local Government Act 2001 approval for additional 
expenditure shown on the table in page 9 of the report and for the budget adjustment in 
respect of road grants of €4.376m was proposed by Cllr. A. Donohoe and seconded by Cllr. M. 
Byrne and agreed by all. 

7.  Annual Service Delivery Plans 2017: 

The County Secretary advised that the Annual Service Delivery Plans must be consistent with 
the provisions in the Local Authority Budget and also must be consistent with all plans of the 
Council including the Corporate Plan, Development Plan and other plans.   

In accordance with Section 13 (A) of the Local Government Act 2001, as amended, the 
adoption of the Annual Service Delivery Plan is a reserved function of the Council. 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. B. A. Murphy the 2017 Annual Service 
Delivery Plan was adopted. 

8.  Draft Playground Strategy 2017-2022: 

Mr. G. Mackey, Chief Officer LCDC, then joined the meeting. He advised that the Playground 
Strategy document, as circulated, had previously been presented to the SPC and the four 
Municipal Districts. 

The Chief Executive advised that grants of up to €25,000 (or 49% of Capital costs) will be 
made available to community groups to develop playgrounds in their local area.  It was clarified 
that community groups can also apply to LEADER for further funding for playgrounds, subject 
to conditions applying to LEADER funding.   

Councillors raised a number of issues with regard to the provision of playgrounds by 
communities; in particular the cost of insurance and maintenance which causes difficulties for 
local communities.   

Mr. Mackey advised that the Council has 34 playgrounds at present and inspects them once a 
week. However, for future playgrounds the community groups will be responsible for the 
maintenance and insurance.  The Council provides training for community groups in respect of 
the weekly inspection of playground equipment.  Wexford County Council also carries out an 
annual inspection on all playgrounds. 

Discussion also took place on the Council’s policy with regard to planning applications for large 
private housing developments which should include play areas in line with the Strategy, with 
the developer being responsible for the ongoing repair/maintenance of the playground 
equipment. 

The Playground Strategy Document, as presented, was adopted on the proposal of Cllr. M. 
Byrne, seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by all present. 

Mr. G. Mackey also advised that a Department circular on the Town and Villages Renewals 
Scheme for 2017 had been received recently and that his department would be managing the 
programme.  He advised that expressions of interest are being sought, which will be 
considered by a steering group. It is proposed that fifteen of those expressions of interest will 
be selected.   

Mr. Mackey emphasised that the timelines for this scheme are very tight. 

Mr. Mackey also advised that a circular regarding a new scheme for Trails and Outdoor 
Recreation has been received; again the timelines are very tight and community groups should 
contact the Council as soon as possible with their applications.  

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  Nomination of Member of Wexford County Council on the County Wexford Drugs & 

County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

Alcohol Task Force: 

Two candidates were proposed: 

Cllr. M. Farrell was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne 

Cllr. D. Hynes was proposed by Cllr. D. Wadding, seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen. 

Cllr. M. Farrell withdrew her nomination and Cllr. D. Hynes was therefore deemed elected. 

10. Ratification of Interim PPN Representatives to Wexford County Council Committees: 

The report as submitted was proposed by Cllr. A. Donohoe seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne and 
agreed by all present. 

11. Report of Corporate Policy Group: 

The report of the Corporate Policy Group was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan and seconded by 
Cllr. A. Donohoe.  

13. List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe, the Members noted and 
approved the List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training as circulated to the meeting, 
including an invitation to a ceremony in Messina Ridge, Belgium on 7th June, 2017.  

14. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe and agreed by all the 
Members present the following minutes were noted and approved. 

14.1 Special Meeting of Gorey Municipal District 21.03.17 
14.2 Gorey Municipal District 21.03.17 
14.3 Enniscorthy Municipal District 20.03.17 
14.4 Borough District of Wexford 20.03.17 
14.5 Borough District of Wexford 20.02.17 
14.6 Protocol Committee Meeting of Borough District of Wexford 31.03.17 
14.7 New Ross Municipal District 08.03.17 

12. Chief Executive’s Report: 

The Chief Executive’s Report for May 2017 was circulated to the meeting.  Questions raised by 
Councillors present were answered by Council Officials in attendance.  The issues raised 
included the following: 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

  Commitment of the Council to enforce breaches of litter bye-laws in the gardens of 

private houses 

  The timescale for the expressions of interest in Gorey Market House 
  The Hatch Lab in Gorey which opened recently 
  National policy on the consideration of RAS/HAP tenants for social housing 
  Updates on the business parks in New Ross and Enniscorthy 
 

It was noted that the Special Projects Manager Ollie Tierney will be leaving the project 
shortly and his replacement will be Brian Galvin. 

  Proposed introduction of charges for recycling centres 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe it was agreed to suspend 
Standing Orders to allow the meeting to continue to 5.45 p.m. 

16.Notices of Motion: 

16.1 Cllr. A. Kelly (deferred from April Meeting) 

“I move that this Council would call on Minister Denis Naughton to introduce the necessary 
legislation to address the easy accessibility to online gambling” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. A. Kelly seconded by Cllr. G. Lawlor and agreed by all. 

16.2 Cllr. J. Mythen: 

“That this Council request the Minister to consider placing the voluntary Irish Coast Guard 
organisation on a legislative footing equal to the other blue light emergency services”. 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Mythen seconded by Cllr. A. Kelly and agreed by all. 

16.3 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“This Council calls on the Minister Simon Coveney T.D., Minister for Housing, Planning, 
Community and Local Government to urgently review the bill published last year ‘Rebuilding 
Ireland” which sets ambitious targets to double the annual level of residential construction to 
25,000 homes and deliver 47,000 units of social housing in the period to 2021. As the situation 
in Wexford is by the day become more and more intolerable, we see people coming forward 
weekly and sometimes daily to housing clinics and Councillors either homeless or on the verge 
of homelessness. While we welcome the aspirations of the bill it still is not addressing the 
absolute need for more social housing. As the majority in Wexford will still not be in a position 
to take out mortgages even if the houses were there, which they are not. We need to get back 
to the building of social housing on a large scale”.   

This motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. D. Wadding and agreed by all. 

16.4 Cllr. D. Hynes: 

“This Council calls on the present government to put a referendum to the people calling for the 
water and the treatment of to remain in public ownership and this to be done as a matter of 
urgency”.  

This motion was proposed by Cllr. D. Hynes seconded by Cllr. A. Kelly and agreed by all. 

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

16.5 Cllr. M. Byrne: 

“That Wexford County Council expresses concern at the treatment and conditions of members 
of the Defence Forces and the difficulties faced by the Forces in retaining highly skilled 
personnel. This Council calls for a comprehensive review to recognise the valuable work of the 
forces and to ensure that careers are sustainable and attractive”. 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Byrne seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming and agreed by all. 

16.6 Cllr. M. Sheehan: 

“That this Councils calls on the Minister for Social Protection to reinstate the State Transition 
Pension for those who are the end of their working careers and are awaiting full retirement”. 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan seconded by Cllr. K. Doyle and agreed by all. 

17.Sealing of Documents: 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan the Members noted and 
approved the sealing of documents as submitted to the meeting. 

18.Correspondence and Communications: 

Cllr. D. Wadding welcomed the comprehensive report from Minister Flanagan with regard to 
Falun Gong. 

Cllr. A. Donohoe acknowledged the comprehensive reply regarding Orkambi from Minister 
Simon Harris TD. 

19.Any Other Business:   

Cllr. D. Hynes raised the issue that the meeting should be extended for an hour at the start of 
the meeting to allow time for presentations. 

The issue of broadband in Municipal Districts was addressed by Mr. T. Larkin, Director of 
Services, who advised that his team were working on information regarding broadband and 
this would be made available shortly.  

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This concluded the business of the meeting. 

County Council Meeting 08.05.17 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
