 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 14th January, 2019 – 2.30 p.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. K. Doyle, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  

P. Breen; 
A. Connick; 
M. Farrell; 
J. Hegarty; 
W. Kavanagh;   
B.A. Murphy;  
J. O’Rourke;   
F. Staples;               J. Sullivan;  
M. Whelan. 

G. Carthy; 
M. Byrne; 
M. Doyle 
T. Dempsey;   
J. Fleming;    
W. Fitzharris;  
R. Ireton; 
D. Hynes; 
L. McDonald;  
G. Lawlor;  
M. Murphy; 
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin;  M. Roche; 
O. Walsh; 

K. Codd Nolan; 
A. Donohoe;   
T. Forde;  
P. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien;  
M. Sheehan;  
T. Walsh; 

Officials: 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services;  
Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, Senior Executive Officer; 
Mr. S. Howell, Senior Executive Architect; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary.  

1.  Confirmation of Minutes: 

1.1 County Council Meeting – 10th December, 2018. 
1.2 Special County Council Meeting – 2nd January, 2019. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B. A. Murphy seconded by Cllr. M. Murphy and agreed by all, the 
Council approved the minutes of the meetings as outlined above.  

2.  Filling of Casual Vacancy following the resignation of Oisin O’Connell: 

At the outset the Cathaoirleach welcomed ex-Councillors Oisin O’Connell and Anthony 
Kelly to the meeting.  He also welcomed Marie Doyle. 

Cllr. G. Lawlor took the opportunity to pay tribute to Oisin O’Connell as he hadn’t the 
opportunity to do so at the previous meeting. 

Cllr. J. Mythen then proposed Marie Doyle to be co-opted to fill the casual vacancy arising 
from the resignation of Oisín O’ Connell and this was seconded by Cllr. M. Roche and 
agreed by all. 

1 

 
 
                                                                            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

Cllr. M. Doyle then took her seat and introduced herself to the Council, giving a brief 
description of her background. She is a mother with an 8 year old son, living in New Ross 
all her life. She has had a long time interest in politics. She believes in an Ireland of equals 
and is a proud republican and socialist.  

She studied social science in college and is the first female Sinn Fein Councillor on 
Wexford County Council.  She will be the only female member of the New Ross District.  
She also noted that she will be the youngest Councillor and highlighted the disconnection 
that there is with the young people and politics.  She knows the great work that goes on at 
the Council and is looking forward to working for the betterment of people in County 
Wexford.   

The Leaders of all of the political parties then welcomed Marie Doyle to the Council and 
wished her well on her co-option to the Council. 

Members of the New Ross District including the Chairman John Fleming also welcomed 
Marie Doyle to the Chamber and looked forward to working with her as part of the New 
Ross District.   

The Cathaoirleach also welcomed Marie Doyle and looked forward to working with her.   

The Chief Executive Tom Enright then welcomed her on behalf of the Management and 
Staff of Wexford County Council and offered her any help and assistance that she may 
require.  He also welcomed Anthony Kelly back and wished every success to Oisin 
O’Connell in his future. 

3.  Proposed disposal of land under Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

3.1  Proposed  extension  of  lease  of  lands  at  Castlebridge  to  Castlebridge  Community 
Development Co-Operative Society Limited 

3.2  Proposed  extension  of  licence  of  lands  at  Clonroche,  Co.  Wexford  to  Clonroche 
Development Association  

3.3  Proposed  lease  of  lands  at  Newtown  Lower,  Crossabeg,  Co.  Wexford  to  Killurin 
Rowing Club  

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, the proposed disposals, as submitted to the meeting, 
were approved. 

4.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8, of 

the Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended): 

4.1 LAC 1807 – Proposed development of new seating, planting, street furniture and street 
lighting in Templeshannon. Undergrounding of existing overhead services and removal of 
existing poles.  The removal of the existing footpaths along Templeshannon.  The 
resurfacing and relining of the Templeshannon Road.  Introduction of a one way traffic flow 
southbound through Templeshannon.  Diversion of all traffic across Enniscorthy Bridge 
southbound onto Shannon Quay.  Additional pedestrian crossings in Templeshannon and 
along the Shannon.  A new roundabout at the junction of the Spring Valley Road and 
Armstrong's Range.  Other miscellaneous works.   

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, advised the Council that a number of objections had 
been received in respect of the proposed development and they had been incorporated 
into the report, which had been discussed at the Enniscorthy Municipal District meeting in 
December 2018. 

The recommendation of Enniscorthy District was not to proceed with the project, as 
presented, mainly due to the impact of the proposed one-way traffic system would have on 
Templeshannon.  The Director recommended that the Council proceed with the plan as 
presented, but noted that, if the scheme was rejected, the Special Projects Team will 
review the current proposals and come back to the Enniscorthy District with a new set of 
proposals. 

Cllr. P. Kavanagh stated that the traffic management was the issue with regard to the 
current proposal and he also sought a commitment that the money for the scheme will be 
ring-fenced.  This was agreed by the Chief Executive and Director of Services. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Mythen seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy it was agreed by all to 
reject the Part XI, as proposed.  

5.  Rebuilding Ireland 2016-2021 – Wexford County Council Progress Report 

The Progress Report had been circulated to the Members.  Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO 
Housing, highlighted the main points in the Report.  In particular he noted that 419 houses 
had been allocated in 2018 and the Council hoped to maintain that level of housing 
allocations in 2019.  He also expected that the figures on the Housing List should fall to 
under 2000 when the figures are reviewed again in June 2019.   

Councillors then asked a number of questions including the following: 

  The number of acquisitions in rural Wexford and the number of acquisitions scheduled 

to be acquired in 2019 

  a breakdown of the figures between urban and rural 
 
 

the number of Council houses that are vacant 
the number of offers refused by applicants – it was noted that 89 applicants (21.2% 
refusal rate)  refused offers of houses in 2018 and Mr. O’Gorman set out the main 
reasons for this.  The Chief Executive noted that sometimes people are on the housing 
list to avail of housing supports and are not interested in LA Housing. 

  14 vacant houses in Gorey at present 
  Leasing buildings from landlords 
  Too much reliance on the private market 
  Not building enough public housing 
  HAP and RAS are not the answer to the housing problem because it doesn’t provide 

homes 

  The number of Part V new builds in 2018 and the number expected in 2019.  Mr. O’ 
Gorman advised that he expects there to be 51 Part V housing coming on stream in 
2019. 

  The cost to the LA to build houses and why is the cost so high.  Mr. O’ Gorman advised 
that the Council goes out to public tender for all houses and he thinks that value for 
money is on a par with the private sector.  Mr. Shay Howell, County Architect, advised 
that land costs are included in the price along with building costs. The Council houses 
are of very high quality with good services e.g. heating which maybe expensive in the 
3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

first instance but reduces heating costs for the tenants on an ongoing basis in the 
future. 

The Cathaoirleach echoed this view that the houses being built are of good quality which 
leads to lower maintenance costs for tenants in the long run. 

6.  Rollout of Housing First Initiative in Co. Wexford 

A report on the rollout of the Housing First Initiative in Co. Wexford had been circulated to 
the Members. Mr. P. O’ Gorman, SEO, Housing, presented the main points of the 
Initiative.  He noted that the Initiative, which will put supports in place to help deal with 
serious housing issues, including homelessness and rough sleeping, will begin in April 
2019. The Initiative will also have extra staff, including a full-time senior Psychologist for 
the South-East. Members welcomed the initiative.   

Following a number of questions, Mr. O’Gorman advised that it was unlikely that housing 
for clients being dealt with under the Initiative would be distributed across the county - it 
was most likely to be located in Wexford Town where there are services available for these 
clients. 

7.  Co. Wexford Vacant Homes Strategy & Action Plan 2018-2021 Update 

A comprehensive report, giving an update of the Co. Wexford Vacant Homes Strategy and 
Action Plan 2018-2021 had been circulated to the members. Mr. O’ Gorman, SEO, 
Housing, then set out the main items in the report.   

Members then brought up a number of issues related to vacant houses, including the 
following: 

Ineligibility for the Repair and Leasing Scheme 

 
  The unwillingness of the banks to engage with the Council in relation to vacant 

houses in their possession 

  The time lapse between the purchase of a house and the letting of a house 
  The time lapse in a rented house becoming vacant and for housing maintenance 

and repairs to be carried out.   

Mr. O’Gorman responded that the timeframe was normally 2-3 months but sometimes 
legal issues delay the purchase of the house and the keys are not available until such time 
as the legal issues are dealt with. 

Discussion then took place on a survey of vacant houses in four pilot areas in the County.  
Mr. O’Gorman advised that the way the Council is funded also has an effect on repairs.  
He noted that if the repairs cost in the region of €7000-€8000 they are done locally but 
above that amount they require department approval for funding for voids.  He noted that 
there were 45 voids in 2018. 

The Chief Executive advised that the CCMA have raised this funding issue nationally and 
he noted that the release of funding is starting to happen more quickly.  Mr. O’ Gorman 
advised that no two cases are the same.  Often, the Council has to bring rented properties 
up to standard where unauthorised works have taken place. Mr. Shay Howell, Co. 
Architect gave an example of attic conversions which have to be brought up to standard 

4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

even though they appear to be in good condition on the surface.  He noted that there are 
generally reasons behind delays of this kind. 

8.  Choice Based Letting – Pilot allocation in Co. Wexford  

A comprehensive report on the new Choice Based Lettings Scheme had been circulated to 
the Members. Mr. P. O’Gorman, SEO Housing, highlighted the main features of the new 
Scheme, which were noted by the Members. 

At 4pm Cllr. F.O’ Súilleabháin arrived. 

9.  Traveller Accommodation Programme 2019-2024 – Initial Analysis of Need 

The report had been circulated to the Members and Mr. P. O’Gorman presented the main 
points of the report, including a summary of an assessment of traveller housing needs. He 
also gave a timeline of the various steps in the process, advising that it was likely that the 
Programme would come before the Members in July 2019. 

Discussion then took place regarding a number of issues including  

  The results of the recent accommodation needs survey of all travellers in Co. Wexford, 

which showed that all of the travellers surveyed opted for social housing  as their 
preferred housing option. 
the need for in-depth study of traveller sources of income,  

 
  Councillors also raised a recent case where the travelling family wished to be rehoused 
in a halting site.  Mr. O’Gorman advised they have now changed their minds and wish 
to be rehoused in social housing. 

  The Cathaoirleach asked that the traveller accommodation project beside settled 

community which was tried in Marconi Park not be repeated as that project did not 
work out. 

At 4.10 p.m. Cllr. A. Connick arrived. 

Votes of Sympathy: 

The Members expressed their sympathy to the families of the following recently deceased: 

  The family of Noel Roche, husband of Diane Roche, Corporate Services 
  The family of Michael Leahy, father of Dermot Leahy, Agricultural Scientist, 

Environment Dept 

  The family of Scott Doran, Bridgetown 
  The family of Stephen Lawlor, the Hide Out, Tomhaggard, Wexford. 
  The family of Kathleen Kearney, Selskar St. Wexford. 
  The family of David Hamilton, The Bull Ring, Wexford Town. 
  The family of Tommy Harrell who has been involved with the London Wexford 

Association for many years and was involved with the Fr. Murphy’s Hurling Club in 
London for over 50 years. Cllr. R. Ireton advised that a new London Wexford 
Association committee is now in place. 

  The family of former Councillor Martin Ryan, Barntown, Wexford.  
  The family of Joe McGuinness, Carcur Cottages, Wexford. 
  The family of Jack Murray Adamstown. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

  The family of Johnny Roche and the Rowe family, JKL Place, New Ross. 
  The family of Majella Murphy, Garrydaniel, Monamolin, Gorey, Co. Wexford. 

Vóta Comhghairdeas: 

Déan na Comhairleόirí comhghairdeas ar na ghrúpaí/dhaoine liostaithe thíos: 

  Rodney Goggins who reached the finals of the Senior Irish Masters Snooker 

Tournament in Kildare. 

  The Wexford Senior Hurling Team for their victory over Kilkenny. 
  The Oylegate Junior B Hurling Team who won the Leinster Final. 
  The New Ross Pantomime Society celebrating its 100th Anniversary. 
  Enniscorthy Rugby Club who have reached the semi-finals of the All Ireland Junior 

Cup. 

  The extension of the right to vote for female voters in Local Government elections, 

which was achieved 120 years ago. 

  Soccer referee, Michelle O’ Neill, who has been selected to officiate at the FIFA 

Women’s World Cup in 2019.  

  The town of Gorey which will celebrate the 400th anniversary of the signing of the 

charter establishing the town. 

  Wexford Ploughing Association who launched the 36th European Ploughing Contest 

which will take place in Springpark, Ballinaboola in March 2019. 

The Cathaoirleach then invited Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services, to address the meeting 
regarding a Working Group to be formed to deal with the issues at Rosslare Port, as 
agreed at the Special Meeting of the Council on 2nd January 2019.  

The Director recommended that the Working Group would have a countywide brief; that it 
would comprise of the Members of the CPG (which would include the Chairmen of the four 
SPC’s and the Cathaoirleach) in addition to one member of Sinn Fein and one 
Independent sitting on the committee. 

The Director also advised that it was his view that the Working Group should form as 
quickly as possible and bring their report to the March 2019 meeting of the Council or as 
soon as possible thereafter.  The Director recommended that this would necessitate 
agreeing a narrowing of the brief to the following: 

The Working Group will look at Rosslare Europort  

 

 

 

to consider and recommend to WCC what its position on the strategic development 
of Rosslare Harbour should be. 
to consider and recommend on the implications of the potential cessation of Irish 
Ferries services at Rosslare Europort. 
to consider and recommend on measures the Council should take to support the 
operations of Rosslare Europort. 

The Director envisaged that the Working Group would identify and consult with the 
stakeholders and invite them to meet with the Working Group to hear their concerns and 
their views on the important issues facing Rosslare Europort.  Finally, the group will be 
serviced by the Chief Executive and personnel from the Economic & Planning and 
Transportation directorates. 

6 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

Following discussion it was agreed that the following members should serve on the 
Working Group: 

Councillors M. Sheehan, L. O’Brien, J. Mythen, T. Walsh, G. Lawlor, L. McDonald, F. 
Staples and the Cathaoirleach K. Doyle. 

10. Local Elections 2019 

At the outset Cllr. F. Staples made a statement regarding his recent illness and thanked 
the Chief Executive and Council Officials, his colleagues and family and friends for their 
support over the past number of months while he was in hospital. During the period of his 
illness, he learned the stress that his depression caused not just to himself, but also to his 
own family and the need for support for the families of people suffering from depression.  
He used the opportunity of today’s meeting to affirm that he will be standing for re-election 
in the forthcoming Local Elections. 

The County Secretary then circulated a report with regards to maps, register of electors, 
split polling stations and a draft submission for reform of electoral registration process and 
this was noted by the meeting.  

11. GDPR Guidelines from Data Protection Commission 

Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, referred to the Guidelines from the Data Commissioner 
which had been circulated to the Members; he highlighted a number of important points in 
the Guidelines, as follows: 

No.1 – the guidelines now supersede the form issued by WCC recently.  The Council no 
longer requires forms to be completed by Members for their clients. The consent to elected 
Members from their constituents to represent them is inferred. 

No. 2 – the Members are Data Controllers and each Member should have a privacy 
statement in their offices or on their websites. The Council is in the process of drafting a 
privacy statement for each Member which will explain how the information that they obtain 
about their clients will be used.   

The changes outlined were welcomed by the Members. 

Cllr. G. Lawlor advised the meeting that he had received a letter from the Senior Inspector 
in the Data Commissioner’s Office regarding an alleged data breach for a period preceding 
the GDPR and he outlined the case in question. 

Cllr. J. Moore had attended the Members G.D.P.R. training course last week and he 
advised the meeting that individual Councillors are Data Controllers. He raised concerns 
about the vulnerability of Members acting as Data Controllers and was of the opinion that 
Members require support from the AILG and LAMA in terms of training, management of 
records and adequate indemnification in case of data breaches.   

Cllr. J. Moore proposed that reps of LAMA and AILG raise these issues with the 
organisations and this was seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy.   

7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

Cllr. P. Breen, representative of the AILG advised that the AILG is taking this issue very 
seriously and will provide training in the near future. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that arising from today’s meeting the issues raised should be 
brought to the AILG and LAMA respectively and he noted that the case brought to the 
Council by Cllr. G. Lawlor is a good example of the need for protection of Council 
Members in their new role as Data Controllers. 

The Director advised that, if Members receive any similar letters re data protection 
breaches from the Data Commissioner that the Council would give as much advice as they 
can. Members should contact either the Director or the County Secretary in this regard. 

The Director also advised that the review of the Councillors Role and Remuneration taking 
place at present provides a good opportunity for Members to highlight this matter at a 
national level, in particular the need for good insurance cover for Members.  

12. Annual Service Delivery Plan 2018 (Quarter 4) 

13. Mr. E. Taaffe, Director of Services, presented the Annual Service Delivery Plan 2018 
(Quarter 4), which was noted by the Members. He then advised the Members to email 
the Directors individually if they had any query in relation to the Plan.  

At 4.30 p.m. Cllr. J. O’Rourke left the meeting. 

14. Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive’s Report was considered by the Members.  The Chief Executive and 
Members of the Management Team responded to Members queries arising from the report 
including the following: 

  Update on the advance enterprise centre in New Ross – Director T. Larkin expects 
the centre will commence in 2019.  He expects to make a formal announcement in 
March 2019.  He advised also that this development may need planning permission. 

  Criticism of the IDA website – Cllr. G. Lawlor advised that there was nothing about 
Wexford on the IDA website for the South East.  Waterford, Kilkenny, Carlow and 
Tipperary were all included on the website, but not County Wexford.  The Chief 
Executive advised that he had brought this matter up with the IDA and they have 
assured him that this will be rectified. 

  Significant increase in the number of callouts for forest and grass fires in 2018. 
  The delay in getting pre-planning meetings. Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Service 

agreed that the delays for pre-planning were too long, but he had reviewed this area 
and found some administrative problems which will be sorted in the near future.   

He advised that there was a new system in place since 1st January 2019 and he is 
looking at some further changes in that matter.  He advised that the Planning Dept 
is adequately staffed and he had recently received an extra engineer for Building 
Control and Enforcement.   

Cllr. M. Byrne advised he had staffing concerns for building control and 
enforcement and it had led to costs previously and he was nervous that this would 
happen again.  

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

  The Wexford Broadband Strategy: Director  T. Larkin advised that there are 

extensive broadband services in the towns and villages of County Wexford. He 
stated that WCC is not a provider of Broadband – the Council’s role is to identify 
problems and issues and to help providers to deal with those issues, where 
appropriate. 

The Cathaoirleach asked that Standing Orders be suspended to allow the meeting to run 
until 6pm. 

  Planning application in respect of a logistic company which was refused twice – Mr. T. 
Larkin, Director of Services advised that he was not aware of the second refusal. He 
noted that there were technical difficulties with the first application, but he felt that these 
issues could be overcome. He would be happy to meet the company to try to resolve 
these issues. 

  Council support for rural broadband provider in Gorey. 
  Update on the position of the Healthy County Programme 
  Wexford County Council’s Event Management Guide. 
  Greenway at Curracloe - further meetings are due to take place with the Dept. with 

regard to the greenway at Curracloe 

  Compensation for the roads being affected by heavy vehicles on the building of the 

Enniscorthy by-pass particularly around Oylegate.  The Director advised that the local 
roads had been looked at and that it is likely that the repairs will be carried out 

  Accessibility to the Local Authority buildings 

15.  List of Councillors’ Conferences and Training  

  Conference Report – Cllr. M. Byrne to Open Government Partnership Conference in 

Tbilisi, Georgia, 17-19 July 2018.  

The list of Councillors Conferences and Training and the Conference Report by Cllr. M. 
Byrne were proposed by Cllr. P. Breen seconded by Cllr. M. Whelan and agreed by all. 

15. Minutes of Meetings: 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Mythen, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick, and agreed by all the 
Members present, the following minutes were noted and approved: 

15.1 Borough District of Wexford 19.11.18 
15.2 Gorey Municipal District 20.11.18 
15.3 Enniscorthy Municipal District 19.11.18 
15.4 New Ross Municipal District 14.11.18 

16. Deferred Notices of Motion: 

16.1 Cllr. L. McDonald: 

“That this Council noting the recent Cervical Check Scandal, calls upon the Minister for 
Health and An Taoiseach to acknowledge, support and respond in detail to the demands 
of the Standing4Women* campaign. These include: Legislation and policy on mandatory 
open disclosure independent of the patient safety bill, provision of a start and end date and 
full disclosure on the 1800 smears yet to be audited, and a breakdown of the new 

9 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

packages being negotiated with laboratories carrying out smear slide analysis including 
mandatory site audits”.    

Cllr. McDonald advised that the motion had been superseded by events. However, she 
wished to amend the motion as follows: 

 

 

to acknowledge that the Minister for Health has published the Implementation Plan 
for the recommendations set out in the Scally Report  
to urge the Minister for Health to put in place the recommendations contained in the 
Implementation Plan as quickly as possible. 

The amended motion was seconded by Cllr. Mary Farrell and agreed by all.  

16.2 Cllr. T. Walsh: 

“That Wexford County Council commission a sociological study to examine those areas of 
County Wexford that are considered ‘very disadvantaged’ by multiple reports over many 
years, with a view to devising a plan to break the cycle of generational deprivation 
recurring in those areas”. 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and agreed 
by all.   

Following discussion regarding the areas of disadvantage in County Wexford and that 
certain communities lacked the capacity to put in grant applications to avail of the SICAP 
monies, the Cathaoirleach noted that many of the issues brought up in the discussion of 
the motion were under the remit of LCDC. He suggested that it would be worthwhile to get 
a report from the LCDC for the Members and then to invite WLD to the Council Meeting to 
present the report.   This was agreed by all present.  

16.3 Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin: 

"That this Council acknowledges Co. Wexford’s rich cultural heritage and will establish the 
post of Heritage Officer (with possibly a Conservation or other role if deemed 
necessary/appropriate) in 2019". 

The above motion was proposed by Cllr. F. OSúilleabháin seconded by Cllr. J. Mythen and 
agreed by all. Director of Service, Mr. T. Larkin clarified that the post of Heritage Officer is 
only part-funded by the Heritage Council. 

At 17.55 Cllr. K. Codd Nolan left the meeting. 

17.Notices of Motion 

17.1 Cllr. T. Forde: 

“"We ask that Wexford County Council seriously consider and take steps to end the over 
reliance of privately run bed and breakfasts or hotels for emergency accommodation. We 
ask that Wexford County Council recognise the unsuitability of the current emergency 
accommodation model and to examine the possibility of acquiring and using more actual 

10 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 County Council Meeting 14.01.19 

houses that could be operated by the council or in coordination with other housing 
organisations for the provision of emergency accommodation." 

17.2 Cllr. T. Forde: 

"We call on Wexford County Council to formulate and to make public a written mental 
health policy for housing which may include a clear protocol when dealing with tenants 
with mental health concerns and to include mental health issues as a priority in the 
allocation of housing” 

17.3 Cllr. G. Carthy: 

“That Wexford County Council immediately re-install the vehicular access to the beach at 
Seaview, Kilmore.  This commitment was given to the local community and the emergence 
services in May of 2018 and to date has not been acted on”. 

The above motions were deferred to the next meeting of the Council. 

18.Sealing of Documents 

The Sealing of Documents as submitted to the meeting was noted by the Members. 

19. Correspondence and Communications 

The following correspondence was noted by the Members: 

  Email for the Private Secretary to the Minister for Justice and Equality 
  Email from the Private Secretary to the Minister for Health regarding delegation 

20. Any Other Business  None 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an          

lá de Feabhra, 2019. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
