County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 14th July, 2025 in the 
Council Chamber at 2.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: Cllr. Joe Sullivan, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat 

Fleming 

Barron 

Vicky 

Forde 

John 

Tom 

Murphy 

Marty 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Boland 

Nicky 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Rourke 

Breen 

Pip 

Kehoe 

Pat 

Owens 

John 
(Online) 
Jackser 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kelly 

Byrne 

Patricia 

Kenny 

Carthy 

Ger 

Laffan 

Codd 

Jim 

McDonald 

Leonard 
(Online) 

Donal 

Garry 

(Online) 
Darragh 

Shannon 

Raymond 

Sheehan  Michael 
(Online) 
Frank 

Staples 

Staples 

Robbie 

Donohoe 

Anthony 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Walsh 

Catherine 

Doyle 

Craig 

Murphy 

Dwyer 

John 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Walsh 

Oliver 

Officials: 

Ms. Jackie Carroll, Director of Services 

Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Liz Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Lynda Lacey, Director of Finance 

Page 1 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: Cllr. Mary Farrell 

Votes of sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to: 

•  The family of Philip (Phil) Doyle, father of Catherine Culleton, Planning Department. 

•  The family of Ann Brennan, mother of Brian Brennan, TD. 

•  The family of Alice O'Neill (née Kelly), mother of Siobhan O’Neill, Special Projects. 

•  The family of Aidan Crowe, father-in-law of Caroline Crowe, Borough District Office. 

•  The family of Tommy and Hannah Dwyer, Mount Carmel, New Ross. 

•  The family of Breda Hynes, Whiterock View, Wexford. 

•  The family of Nicholas Donnelly, Talbot Green, Wexford. 

•  The family of Joan Cadogan, Caroreigh, Taghmon. 

•  The family of Tom Dunne, The Beeches, Courtnacuddy, Enniscorthy. 

•  The family of Arthur Quinn, Gorey, Wexford. 

•  The family of Ger Bennett, Ferns Upper, Ferns. 

•  The family of Jimmy Kehoe, Cametigue, Bunclody, Wexford. 

•  The family of Ally Connors, St. Brigid's Terrace, Carrigduff, Bunclody. 

Congratulations: 

•  Cllr.’s C. Walsh and J. Owens congratulated the organisers of the Relay for Life event. 
•  Cllr. J. Codd commended the community groups who arrange the many events such as 
the Bannow Show, Kilmore Seafood Festival, Taghmon Pony Racing, Phil Murphy 
weekend, Rathangan Harvest Festival, Leo Carthy weekend, Taghmon Street Festival, and 
Foulksmills Duck Race. 

1.  Confirmation of Minutes. 

1.1 Special County Council Meeting (Filling of Casual Vacancy) 9th June, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. V. Barron the Council resolved to 
confirm the minutes of the Special County Council Meeting (Filling of Casual Vacancy) on 
9th June, 2025. 

1.2 County Council Meeting 9th June, 2025 

Page 2 of 14 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Council resolved to 
confirm the minutes of the County Council Meeting on 9th June, 2025. 

1.3 Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council 23rd June, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. A. Donohoe, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming the Council resolved to 
confirm the minutes of the Annual Meeting of Wexford County Council on 23rd June, 
2025. 

Matters Arising: 

Cllr.’s G. Laffan and B.A. Murphy raised the case of 14-year-old Eoin Roche who fell in 
Borodale Forest and broke his arm. Eoin is campaigning for eircodes for walking trails as 
it took a prolonged period of time for emergency services to locate him. Cllr. Laffan 
advised that this issue is being referred to the Environment SPC for consideration. 

2.  Section 183 of the Local Government Act 2001: 

2.1 Intention to lease the former Bank of Ireland premises at St. Martin’s Road, Rosslare 
Harbour. 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien the Council resolved to 
lease the former Bank of Ireland premises at St. Martin’s Road, Rosslare Harbour in 
accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.2 Intention to grant an easement at 9 Church View, Blackwater, Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy the Council resolved to 
grant an easement at 9 Church View, Blackwater, Wexford in accordance with the terms 
set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.3 Intention to issue a Deed of Easement to Uisce Éireann over lands at Taghmon. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. V. Barron the Council resolved to 
issue a Deed of Easement to Uisce Éireann over lands at Taghmon in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.4 Intention to lease a premises at Hill Street, Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. V. Barron, seconded by Cllr. R. Staples the Council resolved to 
lease a premises at Hill Street, Wexford in accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 
Notice as circulated. 

2.5 Intention to dispose of property at 34 Island Road, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Owens, seconded by Cllr. A. Browne the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at 34 Island Road, Enniscorthy, Co. Wexford in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

Page 3 of 14 

 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

2.6 Intention to dispose of property at 22 High Hill Street, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. J. Dwyer the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at 22 High Hill Street, New Ross, Co. Wexford, Co. Wexford in 
accordance with the terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.7 Intention to transfer a portion of land at Rosbercon, New Ross. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. M. Murphy the Council resolved to 
transfer a portion of land at Rosbercon, New Ross in accordance with the terms set out in 
the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

2.8 Intention to dispose of property at 23 North Street, New Ross, Co. Wexford. 

On the proposal of Cllr. B. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Barden the Council resolved to 
dispose of property at 23 North Street, New Ross, Co. Wexford in accordance with the 
terms set out in the S.183 Notice as circulated. 

3.  Part XI of the Planning and Development Act, 2000 (as amended) and Part 8 of the 

Planning and Development Regulations, 2001 (as amended) 

3.1 LAC2501 - Proposed development of a Public Realm Space incorporating a playground 
for younger children, seating, a pocket park, lighting and landscaping at Kilmuckridge, Co. 
Wexford (Upton T.D., Ford E.D.) 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, 
seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the 
development of a Public Realm Space incorporating a playground for younger children, 
seating, a pocket park, lighting and landscaping at Kilmuckridge, Co. Wexford (Upton T.D., 
Ford E.D.) in accordance with the terms of LAC2501, as circulated. 

3.2 LAC2503 – Upgrade of road intersection between Newtown Road and L3503-5 
(Hospital Junction), Wexford 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. G. Carthy, 
seconded by Cllr. V. Barron, the Council resolved to approve the Part 8 for the upgrade of 
the road intersection between Newtown Road and L3503-5 (Hospital Junction), Wexford 
in accordance with the terms of LAC2503, as circulated. 

4.  Material Contravention of Courtown & Riverchapel Local Area Plan 2015 – 2021 (as 
extended) – Planning Reference Number 20240669- Applicant Tyol (Bayiew) Limited 

Having considered the report of the Chief Executive, on the proposal of Cllr. D. Kenny, 
seconded by Cllr. A. Donohoe and agreed by all, the Council resolved to approve the 
Material Contravention of Courtown & Riverchapel Local Area Plan 2015 – 2021 (as 
extended) – Planning Reference Number 20240669- Applicant Tyol (Bayiew) Limited. 

Page 4 of 14 

 
 
 
 
5.  Chief Executive’s Two-Year Progress Report on the Wexford County Development Plan 

2022 – 2028 

County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

Mr. D. Houston, Senior Planner gave a presentation on the two-year progress report on 
the Wexford County Development Plan 2022 – 2028 covering the areas of climate action, 
housing, economic development, town centre first, social and economic projects, 
heritage, and coastal.  

Mr. D. Houston and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range of 
queries from the Elected Members regarding the following:  

•  Query in relation to the lack of development of zoned land in Bunclody and if there is 

sufficient zoned land available. 

•  When will the housing targets be increased? 
•  What is the long-term plan for the old Tesco site? 
•  What is the status of the Crescent Quay dredging project? 
•  Have all schools across the county been assessed for safe routes to school? 
•  Is there plans for additional residential land to be zoned in Bridgetown? 
•  Is Bridgetown included in the flood relief scheme? 
•  Timeline for Trinity Wharf works and is the funding time bound? 
•  Can Wexford County Council use a material contravention to introduce a use it or lose 

it policy to deal with developers who have zoned land but aren’t developing it? 
•  How many planning applications will be impacted by the proposed change in the 

apartment regulations? 

•  Update sought on the Kilmore Business Park. 
•  Urgency of completion of M11 road was highlighted. 
•  Poor road surface and lack of footpath on Sinnottstown Lane. 
•  Request for radical plans for the drainage of the canal in Bridgetown to avoid flooding 

of low-lying areas. 

•  How many of the 2,202 units mentioned were acquired as turnkeys? 
•  Request to see the breakdown of the housing demand figures by number of bedrooms 

required. 

6.  Appointment to Regional Health Forum 

On the proposal of Cllr. Catherine Walsh, seconded by Cllr. R. Staples, Cllr. V. Barron was 
nominated for appointment to the Regional Health Forum. 

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. R. Shannon, Cllr. A.R. O’Brien was 
nominated for appointment to the Regional Health Forum. 

Page 5 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

As there was only one position to be filled and two nominations, Cathaoirleach Cllr. J. 
Sullivan called for a vote. On a show of hands, Cllr. V. Barron was appointed to the 
Regional Health Forum. 

7.  Switching of SPC Roles 

Mr. M. Drea advised that he had received a request from Cllr. J. Fleming and F. Staples to 
allow them to switch their respective SPC chairs. On the proposal of Cllr. P. Breen, 
seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh and agreed by all it was resolved that Cllr. John Fleming would 
assume the role of Chair of the Economic Development & Enterprise SPC and Cllr. Frank 
Staples would assume the role of Chair of the Planning and Building Control SPC. 

8.  Invitation to New Ross Municipal District for delegation to attend the Eugene O’Neill 

festival in Danville, California in September, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. J. Dwyer the Council resolved to send 
a delegation from New Ross Municipal District to attend the Eugene O’Neill festival in 
Danville, California in September, 2025. 

9.  Chief Executive’s Report 

The Chief Executive and members of the Management Team responded to a wide range 
of queries from the Elected Members regarding the following:  

•  Update sought on the fault reporting and repairs for public lighting. 
• 

Case of lady without water for seven days highlighted and a query as to how Uisce 
Éireann can improve their communications. 

•  Query if Wexford County Council can force works to be done to roads in estates 

which are not taken in charge such as Clonard Village. 

•  Update sought on priority list for taking in charge of estates within Municipal 

Districts. 

•  What can be done to combat new road surfaces lifting with the heat? 
•  What can Wexford County Council do to deal with the dangers posed by ash dieback 

• 

on public roads? 
The issue of damage being caused to trucks and farm machinery by overgrown 
hedges was raised. 

The meeting adjourned for a comfort break at this point. 

Cllr. G. Carthy left the meeting at this point. 

•  Update sought on the upgrade of Ramsgrange sewerage scheme. 

Page 6 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

•  Request for greater public consultation in relation to the roll out of the Safe Routes to 
School Scheme. Disappointment expressed at the situation which has developed in 
the Ballagh where the local community reluctantly voted against implementing the 
scheme.  

•  Request for public information meeting for Kiltealy Safe Routes to School scheme. 
•  Request for funding to fix the hollow on Ryland Road and update sought on flood 

relief works on Ryland Road. 

•  Update sought on safety works at Clohamon. 
• 
• 

Is there any proposal for a mattress collection initiative? 
Is there a standard letter issued to landowners requesting that they cut their hedges? 
Can hedges be cut if they pose a health and safety issue? 

•  Clarification outlined that there wasn’t a formal meeting arranged with the local 
hauliers to discuss the Ballagh Safe Routes to School scheme. A meeting was 
arranged with a local representative, the engineer and one haulier but other hauliers 
who happened to be passing stopped off. 
The benefits of the Safe Routes to School scheme were highlighted. 

• 
•  Update sought on Curracloe Water Sports project. 
•  Update sought on Castlebridge cycleway. 
•  Does Wexford County Council have the power to instruct property owners to cut 

their hedges if they are encroaching on the public footpath? 
•  Update sought for September on the Oylegate to Rosslare project. 
•  Director for Environment thanked for the work done to improve the situation in 
relation to stones on the beach in Rosslare. Request that further similar work be 
done. 

•  Request that Wexford County Council acquire land for park in Bunclody. 
•  Request for a figure on the number of vacant properties which were previously 

• 

• 

granted planning permission to be a creche. 
If there are multiple estates being built along a section of road, are any of the 
development contributions ringfenced to improve that section of road? 
If some offices are vacant in a building, do rates have to be paid on the vacant 
offices? 

Cllr.’s A. Browne and J. Owens left the meeting at this point. 

•  What security measures are in place for the staff of Ozanam House? 
•  Update sought on the plans for the former Women’s Refuge on Distillery Road. 
•  Query why a statement of liability was not accepted as proof of income for a housing 

application. 

•  Does Wexford County Council have a policy on the payment of estate management 

fee contributions? 

Page 7 of 14 

 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

• 
Is the Executive aware of delays in accessing occupational therapist assessments? 
•  Case raised of couple who were unsuccessful in accessing HAP and are appealing the 
decision, but it was claimed that the HAP Unit contacted their landlord to see if they 
would allow Wexford County Council to place a HAP tenant in the property. 

•  Where a tenant was convicted of a crime against children and they have served their 

time, will the Council accommodate them in an estate setting? 

•  View expressed that Wexford County Council should be pushing for a tenant 

purchase type scheme for AHB properties. 

•  Request that taking in charge works be completed, even on a phased basis in 

Parkfield, New Ross. 
• 
Is everyone who gets a house from Wexford County Council Garda vetted? 
•  View expressed that there is a shortage of four-bedroom properties available to 

Wexford County Council. 

•  Request for greater privacy for those presenting as homeless. View expressed that 

they shouldn’t be asked to approach CSU. 

10. Minutes of CPG 

10.1  Minutes of CPG Meeting 7th July, 2025 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. J. Fleming, the Council resolved to 
adopt the minutes of the CPG Meeting of 7th July, 2025. 

11. Minutes of Meeting (For Noting) 

11.1 Gorey-Kilmuckridge Municipal District Meeting – 20th May, 2025 

11.2 New Ross Municipal District Meeting – 7th May, 2025 

11.3 Borough District of Wexford Meeting – 19th May, 2025 

11.4 Enniscorthy Municipal District Meeting – 20th May, 2025 

11.5 Rosslare Municipal District – 21st May, 2025 

11.6 Housing SPC 2nd April, 2025 

11.7Climate Change, Biodiversity & Environment SPC – 4th April, 2025 

11.8 Planning & Building Control SPC – 28th April, 2025 

The Members noted the minutes, as circulated. 

Page 8 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

12. Correspondence and Communications 

12.1 Letters from Carlow County Council re: motions 12th May, 2025. 

12.2 Email from Minister James Browne TD., Office re: motion social housing dated 
11thJune, 2025. 

12.3 Email from Minister James Browne TD., Office re: motion thresholds of income 
dated 11th June, 2025. 

12.4 Letter from Galway County Council re motion dated 12th June, 2025. 

12.5 Letters from Limerick City & County Council re motions dated 6th June, 2025. 

12.6 Correspondence from Chief Superintendent Derek T. Hughes dated 26th June, 2025 
Matters Arising 

The Members noted the correspondence and communications as circulated. 

13. Councillor’s Conferences and Training 

13.1 List of Conferences/Training – List Attached 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen the following conference / 
was approved: 

17th – 19th July MacGill Summer School, The Highlands Hotel, Glenties, Donegal. 

13.2 Delegation Report:  

•  50th Anniversary Twinning Agreement Lugo-Kulmbach 2nd May, 2025 to 4th May, 

2025 

The Members noted the delegation reports as circulated. 

14. Notices of Motion  

14.1 Cllr. Aoife Rose O'Brien 

"This Council calls on the Department of Finance to introduce a shared risk model or 
subsidy to support homeowners of thatched roof cottages; noting the growing crisis 
thatched homeowners are facing due to increased premiums, a lack of insurers providing 
cover for these properties and subsequent issues which act as a barrier for these 
homeowners to sell their properties." 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, seconded by Cllr. J. Codd and agreed by 
all. 

14.2 Cllr. Paddy Kavanagh 

Page 9 of 14 

 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

“I propose that the closed season be pulled back by a month so that hedge cutting can 
commence on August 1st instead of September 1st. I call on the Minister for Housing, 
Local Government and Heritage to amend the relevant legislation to give effect to this 
proposal”. 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. P. Kavanagh, seconded by Cllr. M. Murphy and agreed 
by all. 

14.3 Cllr. Leonard Kelly & Cllr. Tom Forde 

“That Wexford County Council opposes Department of Education Circular 0039/2025, 
particularly due to its impact on special schools serving students with Mild General 
Learning Disabilities (MGLD). 

This Circular imposes staffing, curricular, and administrative changes that fail to account 
for the diverse needs of students in special education settings. In particular, schools 
supporting students with MGLD are at risk of losing flexibility in delivering life skills–
focused programmes, experience staffing constraints, and face additional pressures that 
undermine inclusive education. 

Special schools require tailored structures — not one-size-fits-all policies designed 
around mainstream models. Circular0039/2025 threatens to dilute the quality and 
appropriateness of education for students who benefit most from structured, specialised, 
and supportive learning environments. 

We call on the Minister for Education to: 

1. Suspend the implementation of this circular for special schools; 

2. Engage in meaningful consultation with affected stakeholders; 

3. Protect the autonomy and integrity of special schools serving children with MGLD and 
other additional needs. 

A copy of this motion will be sent to the Minister for Education, Wexford Oireachtas 
members, the National Council for Special Education, and other relevant educational and 
representative bodies.” 

Cllr. T. Forde clarified that the motion seeks to oppose Section 10 of Department of 
Education Circular 0039/2025, rather than the entire circular. 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. L. Kelly and agreed by all. 

14.4 Cllr. Vicky Barron and Cllr. Brídín Murphy. 

“That Wexford County Council commits to the introduction of mandatory annual training 
on Domestic, Sexual, and Gender-Based Violence (DSGBV) for all elected members. 

Page 10 of 14 

 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

This training will equip councillors—who are not qualified DSGBV professionals—with the 
knowledge and guidance necessary to respond appropriately and sensitively to 
constituents disclosing experiences of DSGBV, and to effectively advocate on their behalf 
within the limits of their role. 

It is proposed that the training be delivered annually as part of a scheduled Council 
meeting, in the form of an interactive Q&A session. The session should be facilitated by a 
recognised expert in the field. 

By adopting this motion, Wexford County Council will demonstrate leadership in 
promoting a trauma-informed, survivor-centred approach to public service and 
strengthen our commitment to supporting victims of DSGBV in our communities.” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. V. Barron, seconded by Cllr. B. Murphy and agreed by 
all. 

14.5 Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“In recognition of the stresses and anxieties of families with loved ones in hospital and 
the severity of the cost of living crisis, this Council calls on the Minister for Health, 
Jennifer Carroll MacNeill and the Minster for Public Expenditure, Jack Chambers to end 
the practice of paid parking in all public hospital car parks by whatever means possible.” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan and seconded by Cllr. J. Codd. 

Cllr. J. Fleming proposed the following amendment which was seconded by Cllr. B.A. 
Murphy: 

“In recognition of the stresses and anxieties of families with loved ones in hospital and 
the severity of the cost of living crisis, this Council calls on the Minister for Health, and 
the Minster for Public Expenditure, to reduce the parking fees to one euro per hour with 
a maximum payment of 10 euro per 24 hours in all public hospital car parks.” 

On a show of hands, the amended motion was passed. 

Cllr. R. Shannon left the meeting at this point. 

14.6 Cllr. Jim Codd 

“This Council expresses its dismay at and opposition to the government’s intention to 
abolish the Triple Lock, which governs the deployment of Irish Defence Forces personnel 
overseas. 

The Triple Lock has ensured that Ireland’s participation in overseas missions (with more 
than 12 defence personnel) would always require approval from: 1. the Cabinet 2. Dáil 
Éireann and 3. that the mission they are being deployed on would have a UN mandate 
either from the Security Council or the General Assembly. 

Page 11 of 14 

 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

In 2001, the Irish people rejected the Nice Treaty over concerns that it would drag Ireland 
into EU military structures that would threaten our neutrality. To get the electorate to 
approve the EU Treaty, the government with the agreement of the other EU Member 
States, through a “solemn declaration” introduced the Triple Lock. This Declaration was 
reiterated following initial rejection of the subsequent Lisbon Treaty. 

Therefore, this Council rejects Government’s plans to abolish or amend the Triple Lock, 
considering the proposal signifies a breach of trust with the Irish electorate and a serious 
diminution of Irish Neutrality. “ 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Codd and seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh.  

On the proposal of Cllr. V. Barron, seconded by Cllr. C. Walsh the Council resolved to 
suspend standing orders to allow the meeting to continue beyond 5.30pm. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that there would be a roll call vote on the motion. The 
outcome was the motion was carried after Cathaoirleach Cllr. J. Sullivan exercised his 
casting vote after the initial vote was tied with 13 in favour of the motion and 13 against 
the motion. The voting was as follows: 

Vicky Barron 
Pip Breen 
Patricia Byrne 
Jim Codd 
Anthony Donohoe 
Craig Doyle 
John Dwyer        
John Fleming 
Tom Forde 
Paddy Kavanagh 
Pat Kehoe 

Leonard Kelly 
F 
A  Donal Kenny 
A  Garry Laffan 
F 
Darragh McDonald 
A  Barbara-Anne Murphy 
F 
Bridín Murphy 
F  Marty Murphy 
A  Aoife Rose O’Brien 
F 
John O’Rourke 
F  Michael Sheehan 
Frank Staples 
A 

Robbie Staples 
Joe Sullivan 
Catherine Walsh 

F 
A 
A 
A  Oliver Walsh 
A 
 A 
F 
F 
F 
F 
A 

A 
F 
F 
A 

14.7 Cllr. Catherine Walsh 

“This motion calls on the Housing Minister to abandon plans to reduce apartment and 
studio sizes for one bed apartments.” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. C. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. V. Barron and defeated on 
a show of hands. 

Cllr. A.R. O’Brien left the meeting at this point. 

14.8 Cllr John Fleming 

“I am calling on the minister for Transport to increase the funding allocation for the 
Community Involvement Scheme. This is a progressive scheme where the local residents 

Page 12 of 14 

 
 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

become involved in the road preparation works which covers their percentage 
contribution.” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. P. Breen and agreed by 
all. 

14.9 Cllr. Aoife Rose O'Brien 

"We, The Rosslare Municipal District, call on Wexford County Council to provide a fair 
share of social housing developments, committing to increase the supply allocated for 
the RMD; noting the shortfall received to date compared to other districts". 

This motion wasn’t moved. 

14.10 Cllr. Tom Forde 

“This Council will adopt a rights based Ethical Procurement Policy (EPP), ensuring that 
every endeavour is made to ensure that Council tender processes are consistent with the 
principles of the UN guiding principles on Business & Human Rights, OECD, Guidelines for 
Multinational Enterprises & the Global Sullivan Principles (1999) - to promote respect for 
human rights by companies with which they do business. 

The EPP will incorporate widely accepted and precisely formulated international 
standards and explain clearly how the policy will be implemented. 

The primary aim of the EPP is to ensure that human rights obligations are properly 
acknowledged, observed and respected at all stages of the procurement process.” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. C. Doyle and defeated on a 
show of hands. 

14.11 Cllr. Michael Sheehan 

“To encourage the development of urban and town centres as areas of commercial 
activity, this Council calls on the forthcoming Task Force on Local Government Reform, 
the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage, James Browne TD and both 
Minister's for Finance to implement an urban renewal styled incentive scheme for 
business' in designated town centres using both monetary and fiscal incentives to ensure 
their continued commercial viability.” 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. P. Kavanagh and agreed 
by all. 

Cllr. T. Forde left the meeting at this point. 

14.12 Cllr. Vicky Barron 

Page 13 of 14 

 
 
County Council Meeting 14.07.25 

'This council calls on the Department of Education and Youth Affairs to provide the 
empirical evidence which is being used to support the proposed redesignation of special 
schools as outlined in section 10 of circular 0039/2025'. 

This motion was proposed by Cllr. V. Barron, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy and agreed 
by all. 

15. A.O.B. 

There was no other business. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Meán Fómhair, 2025. 

________________________  

________________________ 

Cllr. Joe Sullivan 

Cathaoirleach  

Michael Drea,  

County Secretary 

Page 14 of 14 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
