Special County Council Meeting 16.12.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council Held Monday 16th December 2024 
 in the Council Chamber at 12.00pm (with some remote attendance) 

Staples 

Sullivan 

Walsh 

Walsh 

Robbie 
(Online) 
Joe 

Catherine  Biddy 
(Online) 
 Oliver 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Boland 

Byrne 

Carthy 

Codd 

Donohoe 

Dwyer 

Fleming 

Nicky 
(Online) 
Cathal 

Kenny 

Laffan 

Donal 

Garry 

Ger 

Jim 

Anthony 
(Online) 
John 
(Online) 
John 

McDonald 

McDonald 

Murphy 

Murphy 

O’Brien 

Darragh 
(Online) 
Lisa 
(Online) 
Barbara-Anne 
(Online) 
Bridín 
(Online) 
Aoife Rose 

Forde  

Tom 

O’Rourke 

John 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

Shannon 

Raymond 

Kehoe 

Pat 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Kelly 

Leonard 
(Online) 

Staples 

Frank  
(Online) 

Officials: 
Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. Shay Howell, A/Director of Services 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: Cllr. Aidan Browne, Mary Farrell, Jackser Owens, Ms. Lynda Lacey, Director of Finance 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 16.12.24 

Cathaoirleach Cllr. P. Breen began by welcoming Deputy’s J. Mythen, F. Ó Súilleabháin, and 
G. Lawlor, and former Deputy B. Howlin. Cllr. Breen congratulated former Councillors George 
Lawlor  and  Fionntán  Ó  Súilleabháin  on  their  election  to  Dáil  Éireann.  Cllr.’s  G.  Carthy,  T. 
Forde,  J.  Codd,  M.  Sheehan,  C.  Walsh,  J.  Sullivan,  O.  Walsh,  A.R.  O’Brien,  R.  Shannon,  P. 
Kavanagh and L. Kelly joined the Cathaoirleach in congratulating George Lawlor and Fionntán 
Ó Súilleabháin on their election. 

Cathaoirleach Cllr. P. Breen extended his best wishes to Vicky Barron and Craig Doyle, the 
nominees for co-option to fill the casual vacancies. Cllr.’s G. Carthy, T. Forde, J. Codd, M. 
Sheehan, C. Walsh, J. Sullivan, O. Walsh, A.R. O’Brien, R. Shannon, P. Kavanagh and L. Kelly 
joined the Cathaoirleach in offering their best wishes to Vicky Barron and Craig Doyle. 

Cllr. C. Walsh congratulated outgoing Deputy Brendan Howlin on his political career. Cllr.’s 
M. Sheehan, P. Kavanagh, and O. Walsh congratulated outgoing Deputy’s Brendan Howlin 
and Paul Kehoe on their outstanding service. Cllr.’s A.R. O’Brien and O. Walsh congratulated 
Johnny Mythen on his re-election to Dáil Éireann. 

Mr. E. Taaffe welcomed Deputy’s J. Mythen, F. Ó Súilleabháin, and G. Lawlor, and former 
Deputy  B.  Howlin.  On  behalf  of  the  staff  and  senior  management  team  Mr.  Taaffe 
congratulated former Councillors G. Lawlor and  F. Ó Súilleabháin on their election to Dáil 
Éireann. Mr. Taaffe welcomed Vicky Barron and Craig  Doyle and said he looks forward to 
working with them. 

1. 

Filling of Casual Vacancy created by the election of George Lawlor to Dáil Éireann 

On the proposal  of  Cllr. C.  Walsh,  seconded by Cllr.  M.  Sheehan,  and  agreed  by  all,  Vicky 
Barron was co-opted to fill the casual vacancy created by George Lawlor’s election to Dáil 
Éireann in accordance with Section 19 of the Local Government Act 2001, as amended. 

Cllr. C. Walsh said Vicky’s care and understanding of our communities most vulnerable, her 
passion for young people and the lives of their families and her drive to make a difference 
will make her a fine representative of the people of Wexford.  

Cllr. M. Sheehan said he was delighted to second Vicky’s nomination stating that she will 
bring a fresh approach and hit the ground running for the people of Wexford. 

Cllr. V. Barron thanked her proposer and seconder and said it is a wonderful opportunity to 
work with Cllr. Walsh whom she has a lot of experience working with. Cllr. Barron thanked 
George  Lawlor  for  the  opportunity  to  be  co-opted  and  Brendan  Howlin  who  was  her 
inspiration to get involved in politics. 

Cllr. V. Barron thanked her mother Mary, father Tony, Sharon, Paul, and her husband Michael 
for all their support and said she is excited and looking forward to working with  her new 
colleagues and the staff. Cllr. Barron finished by saying it is an honour and a privilege. 

2. 

Filling of Casual Vacancy created by the election of Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin to Dáil 
Éireann 

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 16.12.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. T. Forde, seconded by Cllr. A.R. O’Brien, and agreed by all, Craig Doyle 
was co-opted to fill the casual vacancy created by Fionntán Ó Súilleabháin’s election to Dáil 
Éireann in accordance with Section 19 of the Local Government Act 2001, as amended. 

Cllr. T. Forde said he knows Craig as an activist, hard worker, and respected in his 
community. Cllr. Forde said he was delighted to nominate Craig who is now the youngest 
member of the Council. 

Cllr. A.R. O’Brien said she is delighted to no longer be the newest Councillor in the 
Chamber. Cllr. O’Brien said Craig will work hard and be a great addition to the Council. 

Cllr. C. Doyle thanked Seamus Davitt, Deputy Johnny Mythen, Deputy Fionntán Ó 
Súilleabháin, Cllr. Tom Forde, and Cllr. Aoife Rose O’Brien for their help and support. Cllr. 
Doyle said he looked forward to working with his fellow Councillors. 

Cllr.’s J. Fleming, O. Walsh, and J. Codd welcomed Cllr.’s Barron and Doyle onto the Council.  

Cllr. T. Forde welcomed Cllr. Barron and said he is looking forward to working alongside 
her. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Eanáir, 2025. 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 3 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
