Special County Council Meeting 19.06.17 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council  
held on Monday 19th June, 2017 – 11.30 a.m.  
in the Council Chamber, County Hall, Wexford. 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  

Cllr. P. Kavanagh, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
P. Breen; 
T. Dempsey;   
J. Fleming  
W. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore; 
L. O’Brien; 
M. Roche; 
D. Wadding;   

Officials: 

M. Byrne; 
A. Donohoe,   
J. Hegarty,  
A. Kelly;  
BA Murphy,    
O. O’Connell; 
M. Sheehan;  
M. Whelan. 

G. Carthy; 
K. Doyle, 
D. Hynes; 
G. Lawlor; 
M. Murphy;    
J. O’Rourke   
F. Staples                 J. Sullivan; 

K. Codd Nolan 
M. Farrell; 
R. Ireton; 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen; 
F. Ó Súilleabháin; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
M. T. Larkin, Director of Services; 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services; 
Mr. J. Carley, Director of Services; 
Mr. S. Begley, A/Head of Finance; 
Mr. P. O’Gorman, Senior Executive Officer; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary; 

Apologies:   

Councillors A. Connick, O. Walsh 

On the proposal of Cllr. G. Lawlor seconded by Cllr. M. Byrne it was agreed to hold the 
meeting In-Committee given the sensitive nature of the matters to be discussed. 

1.  Refugee Settlement Programme: 

The Chief Executive addressed the Council to update them on two issues: 

a.  Syrian Families Settlement  

b.  Recent  contact  from  the  Department  of  Justice  re  Refugee  Reception  Centres.  
Members would be aware that the National Task Force on Refugee Reception Centres 
had agreed that Elected Members would be informed in advance of proposals to open 
refugee reception centres in their county. 

1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 19.06.17 

He further advised that an ad had appeared in  the national media from the Department of 
Justice  seeking  suitable  premises  throughout  Ireland  to  deal  with  families  coming  into 
Ireland  from  Syria;  examples  of  such  refugee  centre’s  are  Clonea  Strand  Hotel  in 
Dungarvan and also the Centre in Ballaghaderreen, Co. Roscommon.   

The  Reception  Centre’s  are  used  to  provide  English  language  training,  education,  health 
and  other  supports  over  a  few  months  from  the  arrival  of  the  refugees  who  are  then  re-
housed by various Local Authorities throughout the country. 

The  Cedars Hotel in Rosslare  Strand has  been  selected for use as  a  Refugee  Reception 
Centre.    It  is  envisaged  that  the  building  will  be  refurbished  and  ready  for  occupation  by 
September 2017.  The building has 33/34 bedrooms which will house approximately 60-90 
people.   

The Refugee Reception Centre’s are different from the Direct Provision centre’s which are 
used  for  asylum  seekers  awaiting  the  processing  of  applications  for  refugee  status.    The 
Department  of  Justice  has  leased  Cedars  Hotel  for  a  period  of  2  years.    The  Chief 
Executive advised that he had spoken to both the Council’s in Roscommon and Waterford 
and was advised that there had been no issues regarding the Reception Centres.   

Furthermore,  he  asked  the  Department  of  Justice  about  the  support  locally  for  the  local 
community  and  the  Department  is  currently  checking  the  building  to  ensure  that  it  is 
covered for planning and fire safety.  It was noted that a thorough fire inspection had been 
done by a qualified engineer for the Department of Justice.  He also noted that the opening 
of the Reception Centre would provide some employment in the local area. 

The  Chief  Executive  has  also  been  in  contact  with  Bill  Kelly  from  the  Local  Rosslare 
Development Association who would welcome families and give as much support and help 
to the resettlement as possible.  The Department of Justice will attend the Borough District 
of  Wexford  meeting  on  Monday  26th  June,  2017  to  answer  questions  and  give  further 
information to Councillors.   

The Chief Executive then circulated a document to the Members.  He clarified that families 
would  be  using  the  centre;  he  also  noted  that  the  prior  advance  notice  to  Councillors 
regarding the project is important to allay the fears and concerns of the public. 

The Cathaoirleach agreed with the Chief Executive’s sentiments and advised that he would 
hate  to  see  any  negative  response  to  this  initiative.    Rosslare  is  a  jewel  in  the  crown  of 
Wexford tourism and the reputation of Rosslare Strand is very high in a national context. 

The  proposed  Centre  was  then  discussed  by  the  members  of  the  Council,  all  of  whom 
welcomed  the  initiative.    A  number  of  issues  were  raised  and  dealt  with  by  the  Chief 
Executive.  He advised that the families coming to Wexford have been vetted by the Garda 
team prior to entering the country.  

It  was  also  highlighted  by  Members  that  services  and  facilities  should  be  put  in  place  to 
ensure  that  the  refugees  would  be  made  welcome  and  would  have  all  of  the  facilities 
available to them.  In particular, that children would be integrated into the local community 
and  it  was  noted  that  the  local  buy-in  from  the  community  in  Rosslare  is  extremely 
important.  Concerns about the work being done in Cedars Hotel to  a high standard were 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 19.06.17 

also  raised.    It  was  agreed  that  the  communication  of  the  resettlement  centre  and  the 
housing  of  the  Syrian  refugees  would  need  to  be  communicated  properly  to  the  general 
public. 

It was noted that the ETB will attend the Borough District Council Meeting - they have dealt 
with similar issues in Clonea and have experience in dealing with refugees coming into the 
country.  The Chief Executive advised that the families coming to the  Resettlement Centre 
will be dispersed all over the country after a number of months.   

He  also  noted  that  extra  funding  is  being  made  available  to  provide  housing  for  these 
refugees  which  will  not  be  impacting  on  the  social  housing  budgets.    It  was  noted  the 
importance of having amenities such as playgrounds designed so that the community can 
use the facilities in the future. 

A  number  of  suggestions  were  made  about  how  to  deal  with  the  communications  of  this 
initiative  and  in particular dealing  with  local  papers and  the holding  of public  meetings.   It 
was  noted  that  the  Council  had  an  important  leadership  role  with  regard  to  the  Refugee 
Settlement Centre. 

At 12.20 p.m. Cllr. A. Connick arrived. 

The  Chief  Executive  advised  that  proper  support  will  be  put  in  place  and  that  the 
Department  of  Justice  will  be  working  with  the  education,  health  and  social  welfare  to 
provide those services.  He also advised that money for community facilities will be made 
available and that Wexford County Council will give support to the project. 

At 12.30 p.m. Cllr. O. Walsh arrived. 

The  Chief  Executive  thanked  the  meeting  for their  unanimous  support  and  advised  that  a 
press release will be prepared for the local newspapers and radio. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

__________________________ 
County Secretary 

Daingithe ar an     la de            , 2017. 

_______________________ 
Cathaoirleach 

3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
