Special (Housing) County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council held on Monday 8th January 2024 in the Council 
Chamber at 11.30am (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Pat  

Farrell 

Bell 

Maura  

Hynes 

Mary 
(online) 
David  

O’Rourke 

Ó’Súilleabháin 

John 
(online) 
Fionntáin 

Bolger 

Breen 

Andrew  
(online) 
Pip 

Kavanagh 

Willie 

Owens 

Jackser 

Kelly 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Leonard 
(online) 
Donal 

Garry 
(online) 
George 

Staples 

Sullivan 

Walsh 

Lawlor  

McDonald 

Lisa 

Whelan 

Moore 

Jim 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 

Frank  
(online) 

Joe 

Oliver 
(online) 
Michael 

Browne 

Aidan 

Kenny 

Byrne 

Cathal 

Laffan 

Ger 

Jim 

Anthony  
(online) 
Diarmuid 

Anthony 
(online) 

Carthy 

Codd 

Connick 

Devereux 

Donohoe 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 

Ms. Lynda Lacey, A/Head of Finance 

Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Director of Services 

Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services  

Ms Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special (Housing) County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Ms. Anita McLoughlin, A/Senior Executive Officer 

Mr. Shay Howell, A/Senior Architect 

Apologies:  

Cllr. Kathleen Codd Nolan, Cllr. Jackser Owens & Cllr. John Hegarty 

Mr. T. Enright outlined the Housing for All target to deliver 1,155 units within the lifetime of the plan, a 
target Mr. Enright advised Wexford County Council will far exceed. He detailed the 120 acres of land 
acquired in Wexford, 72 acres in Gorey, 11 acres in Enniscorthy and the potential to deliver significant units 
on these lands. Mr. Enright spoke of the importance to deliver social, affordable, and private housing 
within the County. He welcomed the opportunity presented by the Members to address a key priority for 
the Council. 

1. 

Housing For All Update 

Ms. A. McLoughlin outlined the breakdown of the Housing for All programme year by year and the 

distribution of social housing demand across the County. Ms. McLoughlin advised that 455 units 

have been delivered through turnkey, Part V and AHB’s in the period 2022 – 2023, a further 771 are 

under construction, and another 409 are approved.  

Ms. McLoughlin informed the Members that an Administrative Officer has been allocated to 

affordable housing to manage this delivery stream. An extended survey across the county will take 

place in January / February 2024 with a view to holding an Affordable Housing seminar for 

developers in February 2024. Ms. McLoughlin advised that affordable housing schemes are being 

developed for the Ramsfort Park, St. Walerans and Milehouse Road sites. She also indicated that 

there is interest from private developers in developing affordable housing as part of mixed tenure 

sites in New Ross, Rosslare and Wexford. 

Mr. E. Taaffe outlined his area of responsibility which is the delivery of social and affordable 

housing build on Wexford County Council owned land. He indicated that the Council will be actively 

pursuing additional land in the main towns. Mr. Taaffe advised that there will also be a focus on 

delivering smaller sites for special local needs. Mr. Taaffe said his unit are currently master planning 

the Milehouse Road, St. Walerans and Ballynagee sites, all of which will be mixed tenure 

developments.   

2. 

AHB - Targets, Allocation Process, Management 

 
 
 
Special (Housing) County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

Ms. A. McLoughlin set out the policy context for AHB’s under Housing for All with a targeted deliv-
ery of 40% of the units. Ms. McLoughlin also detailed the allocation process, management, and reg-
ulation of AHB units. 

3. 

Questions and Answers 

Mr. T. Enright, Ms. C. Godkin, Mr. E. Taaffe and members of the Housing Department responded to 

a wide range of queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Has land been acquired across all villages in the Kilmuckridge district? 

•  Who decides whether a project is an AHB or Wexford County Council project? 

•  How is the allocation of AHB properties managed? 

•  How is the maintenance of AHB properties managed? 

•  How do we decide which AHB’s we will work with? 

•  Are we exploring land acquisition in rural areas? 

•  Does the Council intend providing serviced sites for sale? 

•  Executive were congratulated on new emergency accommodation provided in the Moyne. 

•  The demand for 1 bed and 2 bed units. 

•  Request that the Council does not build 1 bed units as they can lead to social isolation. 

•  Concern over lack of accountability of AHB’s to the Council and the Members. 

•  Concern expressed over AHB capacity to deliver units in Taghmon. 

•  Why aren’t more units being delivered through Repair and Lease and Buy and Renew 

schemes? 

•  How many social units are Wexford County Council going to build, broken down by 

Municipal District and number of bedrooms? 

• 

Is Wexford County Council liaising with Uisce Éireann re: getting sites serviced. 

•  Request that if 65 units are being delivered in Bunclody, units should be delivered on a 

phased basis, with mixed tenure, and all required services provided. 

•  Query on delay in delivery of units in Ramsfort. 

•  Can affordable housing units in Gorey be ringfenced for locals? 

•  Can a provision be put in place to allow single fathers to access a property having regard to 

the number of children they have? 

• 

Is there a specific plan for the delivery of units in villages? 

•  Can rightsizing be facilitated? 

• 

Is Wexford County Council considering log cabin type units? 

Cllr.’s J. O’Rourke, J. Owens and M. Bell left the meeting at this point. 

 
Special (Housing) County Council Meeting 08.01.24 

•  Frustration expressed in relation to Respond units in the Irishtown which have been vacant 

for years. 

•  Query as to why the number of units being planned for Rosbercon is still changing? 

•  When will 24 units be built in Arthurstown? 

•  Do we know how many of the 1,075 units granted planning permission up to November 

2023 have been commenced? Do we have any power to get these units built? 

•  How many units will be delivered in the Rosslare Municipal District up to 2026? 

•  Concern expressed that lack of investment in services in rural areas is leading to a lack of 

units being delivered. 

•  Proposal for 75 units at the Lyre was welcomed. 

•  What is the status of affordable housing proposals for Enniscorthy and across the county? 

•  Criticism of policy of acquiring turnkey units and thereby competing with first time buyers. 

•  Are there any proposals for modular housing delivery? 

•  Are there zoned land tax maps available? 

•  Request for a breakdown of demand and supply by area. 

•  View expressed that the Council should be far more vociferous in managing AHB’s. 

•  Request for Local Area Plans to identify where development is needed. 

Cllr. G. Carthy left the meeting at this point. 

•  View expressed that Wexford County Council need to engage with small developers as they 

won’t quote for Council work due to stipulations. 

Cllr. L. Kelly left the meeting at this point. 

•  Request for a map of Wexford County Council’s landbank. 

•  What is the timeline for work in St. Walerans? 

• 

Is construction at Ramsfort Park still on target to commence in March 2024? 

•  Frustration expressed that there aren’t plans to deliver units in Marshallstown as there is 

serviced land available. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Feabhra, 2024. 

________________________  

________________________ 

Cllr. John Fleming 

Cathaoirleach  

Michael Drea,  

County Secretary 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
