Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

  WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council  
Held Monday 6 September, 2021 at County Hall, Wexford at 2.30pm 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Barbara Anne Murphy, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 
BELL 
BOLGER 
BREEN 
BROWNE 
BYRNE 

PAT 
MAURA 
ANDREW 
PIP 
AIDAN 
CATHAL 

MARY 
FARRELL 
JOHN 
FLEMING 
TOM 
FORDE 
JOHN 
HEGARTY 
HYNES 
DAVID 
KAVANAGH  WILLIE 
KELLY 

LEONARD 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 

OWENS 
SHEEHAN 

JACKSER 
MICHAEL 

JOE 
OLIVER 
MICHAEL 

JIM 

CODD 
CODD-NOLAN  KATHLEEN 
LAFFAN 
ANTHONY 
CONNICK 
DIARMUID  LAWLOR 
DEVEREUX 

SULLIVAN 
WALSH 

GARY 
GEORGE  WHELAN 

Officials: 

•  Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive 
•  Mr. T. Larkin, Director of Services 
•  Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
•  Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance 
•  Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
•  Ms. C. Godkin, A/Director of Services 
•  Mr. D. Minogue, County Secretary 
•  Mr. D. Houston, Senior Planner 
•  Ms Sinead Casey, Senior Engineer 
•  Ms. E. Hore, Senior Executive Officer 
•  Ms. D. Kearns, Senior Executive Planner 
•  Ms. Pauline Doyle, Executive Planner 
•  Ms. F. Fenlon, Assistant Planner 
•  Mr. Graham Hunt, Executive Planner 

Oireachtas Members:  

Deputy Verona Murphy 

Public:  

A number of members of the public attended the meeting  

Page 1 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

Apologies: 

Cllrs  G.  Carthy,  A.  Donohoe,  D.  Kenny,  L.  McDonald,  J.  Moore,  B.  Murphy,  F. 
O’Súilleabháin, F. Staples 

The Cathaoirleach welcomed all to the meeting, the purpose of which was to continue the process 
of consideration of the Draft Wexford County Development Plan 2021-2027 and Chief Executive's 
Report on the Submissions and Observations received on same. 

The Members considered each of the following Motions: 

3.1  We  propose  that  all  considerations  in  relation  the  Draft  County  Development  Plan  be 
suspended pending the publication of the legislation in support of the cabinet decision to 
extend the period of consideration of all county development plans for 1 year, and that the 
council shall extend the period of formation of the plan for the maximum period allowable 
under the new legislation to enable the Councillor s to properly consider the implications 
of various circulars from the Minister since the formation of the draft plan. 

The Motion was proposed in the names of Cllr. M. Farrell, Cllr. P. Barden, Cllr. Jackser 
Owens, Cllr. Leonard Kelly, Cllr. John O’Rourke, Cllr. David Hynes, Cllr. Anthony Connick. 

An amendment to the Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Sheehan and seconded by  Cllr. J. 
Fleming, to the effect that the Council should proceed to consider the Draft Wexford County 
Development  Plan  2021-2027  and  Chief  Executive's  Report  on  the  Submissions  and 
Observations received on same. 

The amendment was put to a roll-call vote and the following was the outcome of that vote: 

Special Planning Meeting of WCC Monday 6 September, 2021 – Amendment Proposal to continue Plan Review  

BARBARA-
ANNE 
BRIDIN 
JOHN 

BARDEN 

PAT 

A 

FARRELL 

MARY 

A  MURPHY 

BELL 
BOLGER 
BREEN 
BROWNE 
BYRNE 
CARTHY 
CODD 
CODD-
NOLAN 
CONNICK 
DEVEREUX 
DONOHOE 

MAURA 
ANDREW 
PIP 
AIDAN 
CATHAL 
GER 
JIM 

JOHN 
TOM 
JOHN 
DAVID 
KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

FLEMING 
F 
F 
FORDE 
F  HEGARTY 
F  HYNES 
F 
AB  KELLY 
KENNY 
A 

LEONARD 
DONAL 

F  MURPHY 
AS  O’ROURKE 
F  O'SUILLEABHAIN  FIONNTAIN 
A  OWENS 
F 
A 
AB  SULLIVAN 

JACKSER 
MICHAEL 
 FRANK 
JOE 

SHEEHAN 
STAPLES 

KATHLEEN 

F 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

F  WALSH 

OLIVER 

LAWLOR 

ANTHONY 
DIARMUID 
ANTHONY  AB  MOORE 

A 
F  MCDONALD  LISA 
JIM 

GEORGE 

F  WHELAN 
AB 
AB 

MICHAEL 

F 

AB 
A 
AB 
A 
F 
AB 
F 

F 

F 

F = For, A = Against, AB = Absent, AS = Abstain 

Page 2 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

2.19  To amend, as follows, the Chief Executive’s Core Strategy Recommendations set out in CE 
OPR 10 on pages 72-77 and CE OPR 12 on pages 78-82 in the Chief Executive’s Report and 
all associated tables and references in the Chief Executive’s Report and the Draft Plan 
including revision of the Housing Strategy: 

To frontload the full 30% population growth to Enniscorthy Town for this plan period 
2021 – 2027. 

Proposed by Cllr. A. Browne. 

Following discussion, Cllr. Browne agreed to withdraw the Motion, and to seek a review of 
the Development Plan implementation and related population changes after two years. 

It was agreed to take the following two Motions as a single Motion: 

2.11  To amend the following section of Table 4.5 Indicative Densities and Scale: 

Levels 1-4 in the Settlement Hierarchy on pages 87-90 in the Chief Executive’s Report as 
follows:  
Provision for Lower Densities in limited cases: 
To facilitate a choice of housing types within areas, limited provision may be made for 
lower density schemes of 20-35 units per hectare provided that, within a neighbourhood 
or district as a whole average, densities achieve the densities mentioned above. 

2.17  To amend the following section of Table 4.5 Indicative Densities and Scale 

Levels 1-4 in the Settlement Hierarchy on pages 87-90 in the Chief Executive’s Report as 
follows: 
Provision for Lower Densities in limited cases: 
To facilitate a choice of housing types within areas, limited provision may be made 
for lower density schemes of 20-35 units per hectare provided that, within a 
neighbourhood or district as a whole average, densities achieve the densities mentioned 
above. 

The single Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty and seconded by Cllr. P. Barden. 

Following discussion, it was agreed to amend the Motion as follows: 

Provision for Lower Densities in limited cases: 

To  facilitate  a  choice  of  housing  types  within  areas,  limited provision may  be  made 

for lower density  schemes of  a  minimum  of  20 units  per hectare,  provided that within  a 

neighbourhood or district as a whole average densities achieve the densities mentioned 

above. 

Page 3 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

The amended Motion was put to the meeting and agreed. 

2.20  To amend the Chief Executive’s recommended ‘Table 4.5 - Indicative Density and Scale of 
Residential Development for Level 1-4 Settlements’ in Section 4.7.2.1 Density of Residential 
Developments (Chapter 4 Sustainable Housing, Volume 1) as follows:  

Small Towns and Villages  

Centrally Located Sites 
Within  a  given  smaller  town  or  village,  there  can  be  marked  variations  in  development 
context which affect the density of development and external space standards needed to take 
account of those contexts. Because of the variety of contexts and the probability of mixed 
use developments, it is difficult to be prescriptive about the level of density recommended. 
However, within centrally located small infill sites, densities of 30-40+ dwellings per hectare 
for mainly residential schemes may be appropriate or for more mixed use schemes.   
Development  of  larger  greenfield  sites,  which  are  not  zoned  under  a  local  area  plan  or 
settlement plan, will be subject to overall densities of 20-35 hectare but will be required to 
provide a minimum of 40% for community or open space uses. Applications for residential 
developments of a maximum of 15 dwellings on a defined site will be required and further 
development will be considered once the first scheme has been satisfactorily completed. 

Edge of Centre Sites 
The emphasis will be on achieving successful transition from central areas to areas at the 
edge  of  the  smaller  town  or  village  concerned.  Development  of  such  sites  tend  to  be 
predominantly  residential  in  character  and  given  the  transitional  nature  of  such  sites, 
densities  to  a  range  of  20-35  dwellings  per  hectare  will  be  appropriate  including  a  wide 
variety  of  housing  types  from  detached  dwellings  to  terraced  and  apartment  style 
accommodation. On un-zoned lands applications for residential developments of a maximum 
of 15 dwellings on a defined site will be required and further development will be considered 
once the first scheme has been satisfactorily completed. 

Edge of Small Town/Village 
In  order  to  offer  an  effective  alternative  to  the  provision  of  single  houses  in  surrounding 
unserviced rural areas, it is appropriate in controlled circumstances to consider proposals for 
developments with densities of less than 15  - 20 dwellings per hectare along or inside the 
edge  of  smaller  towns  and  villages,  as  long  as  such  lower  density  development  does  not 
represent more than about 20% of the total new planned housing stock of the small town or 
village  in  question.  This  is  to  ensure  that  planned  new  development  in  small  towns  and 
villages offer a range of housing types, avoiding the trend towards predominantly low density 
commuter-driven developments around many small towns and villages within the commuter 
belts of the principal cities and other similar locations. Such lower density development also 
needs to ensure the definition of a strong urban edge that defines a clear distinction between 
urban  and  the  open  countryside.  On  un-zoned 
lands  applications  for  residential 
developments of a maximum of 15 dwellings on a defined site will be required and further 
development will be considered once the first scheme has been satisfactorily completed.  

Page 4 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

The  Senior  Planner  advised  the  Members  to  comply  with  the  densities  set  out  in  the 
Sustainable Residential Development in Urban Areas Guidelines (2009). 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Farrell.  

Cllr. J. Fleming proposed an amendment to remove the phrase a minimum of 40% for 
community or open space uses and replace with a minimum of 30% for community or open 
space uses. Cllr. M. Farrell agreed to the amendment and seconded it. 

The Senior Planner suggested that 35 units per hectare may create problems for centrally 
located sites and he recommended removing it and replacing it with a minimum of 20 units 
per hectare and this was agreed.  

The amended Motion was put to the meeting and agreed. 

3.2  We  proposed  that  draft  county  development  plan  be  amended  to  provide  for  general 
densities in the range of 20 to 50 per hectare, and under 20 to be discouraged” and that 
the executive draft the appropriate amendments to the core strategy to give effect to this 
amendment.  

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. M. Farrell, Cllr. P. Barden, Cllr. Jackser Owens, Cllr. Leonard 
Kelly, Cllr. John O’Rourke, Cllr. David Hynes, Cllr. Anthony Connick 

Following discussion, it was agreed to postpone consideration of the Motion until later in 
the meeting. 

3.11  To  amend  Table  5.2  as  recommended  on  page  100  of  the  Chief  Executive’s  Report  as 

follows: 

Amendment to Table 5.2 Timeline for Key Active Land Management Proposals 

Project - Enniscorthy Town Centre – Urban renewal, regeneration and economic plan 

Proposal - Development and implementation of a urban regeneration and renewal plan 
for the town centre 

Later phases to include: 
including  CPO,  site  remediation,  enabling 
Developments  consents,  site  assembly 
infrastructure, site development works, property development, public realm development, 
Derelict Sites, Vacant Sites/Urban Regeneration. 

Timeline - Completion of plan 2022 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. C. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and agreed. 

Page 5 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

2.4 

To  amend  the  Chief  Executive’s  Recommendation,  CE  OPR  19,  on  page  91  of  the  Chief 
Executive’s  Report  relating  to  the  definition  of  Category  A  Housing  for  Persons  with  a 
Demonstrable Social Functional Rural Housing need to live in Strong Urban Influence Rural 
Areas as follows:   

A person who has lived fulltime for a minimum period of  6 years in that local rural area 
and the site is within 8km radius of where the applicant has lived or is living and who can 
have owned a rural house.  

The dwelling must be the person’s permanent place of residence. The person can work from 
home or commute to work daily.  

Proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming and seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan. 

Following discussion, it was agreed to amend the Motion to read as follows: 

A person who has lived fulltime for a minimum period of 7 years in that local rural area 
and the site is within 7km radius of where the applicant has lived or is living and who has 
not previously owned a rural house (See Point 4 in Definitions and Notes regarding owning 
a rural house). The dwelling must be the person’s permanent place of residence. The person 
can work from home or commute to work daily. 

The motion as amended above was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. M. 
Sheehan and agreed. 

2.5 

To  amend  the  Chief  Executive’s  Recommendation,  CE  OPR  19,  on  page  92  of  the  Chief 
Executive’s  Report  relating  to  the  definition  of  Category  A  Housing  for  Persons  with  a 
Demonstrable  Social  Functional  Rural  Housing  need  to  live  in  Stronger  Rural  Areas  as 
follows:   

A person who has lived fulltime for a minimum period of 6 years in that local rural area 
and the site is within 15km radius of where the applicant has lived or is living and who can 
have  owned  a  rural  house.  The  dwelling  must  be  the  person’s  permanent  place  of 
residence. The person can work from home or commute to work daily.  

Following discussion, it was agreed to amend the Motion to read as follows: 

A person who has lived fulltime for a minimum period of 7 years in that local rural area 
and the site is within 15km radius of where the applicant has lived or is living and who has 
not previously owned a rural house. (See Point 4 in Definitions and Notes regarding owning 
a rural house). The dwelling must be the person’s permanent place of residence. The person 
can work from home or commute to work daily.  

The motion as amended above was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne 
and agreed. 

Page 6 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

2.6 

To amend the Chief Executive’s Recommendation, CE OPR 19, on page 91-92 of the Chief 
Executive’s Report relating to the definition of Category A Housing for Persons with a 
Demonstrable Social Functional Rural Housing need to live in Structurally Weak Rural 
Areas as follows:   

A person who has lived fulltime for a minimum period of 6 years in that local rural area 
and the site is within 20km radius of where the applicant has lived or is living and who 
can have owned a rural house. The dwelling must be the person’s permanent place of 
residence. The person can work from home or commute to work daily.  

Following discussion, it was agreed to amend the Motion to read as follows: 

A person who has lived fulltime for a minimum period of 7 years in that local rural area 
and who  has not  previously  owned a  rural  house.  (See  Point 4 in  Definitions  and  Notes 
regarding owning a rural house). The dwelling must be the person’s permanent place of 
residence. The person can work from home or commute to work daily.* 

The Motion as amended above was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne 
and agreed. 

2.7 

To insert the following text under Category A in the Structurally Weak Rural Areas section 
of Table 4.6 Criteria for One-Off Rural Housing in Section 4.6 Single Housing in the Open 
Countryside: 

The speculative development of two-house clusters will be considered in Structurally Weak 
Rural Areas. These houses will have shared vehicular access to the public road and each 
dwelling must be occupied as the future owner’s permanent place of residence.   

This Motion was withdrawn by Cllr J. Fleming. 

2.12  To amend the Chief Executive’s Recommendation with regard to rural housing on pages 93 

of the Chief Executives Report (Table 4.6 Criteria for Off One Rural Housing) as follows: 

Coastal Zone: 
A person who has lived full time within the Coastal Zone for a minimum period of 10 years 
and the subject site is within 3km radius of where the applicant has lived or is living and 
who has never owned a rural house. (See Point 4 in Definitions and Notes regarding owning 
a rural house). The person can work from home or commute to work daily. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and agreed. 

2.13  To amend the Chief Executive’s Recommendation with regard to rural housing on pages 
page 91-95 of the Chief Executive’s Report (Table 4.6 Criteria for Off One Rural Housing) by 
inserting the following wording in all places where there is reference to a person having to 
live in the area for 10 years: 

Page 7 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

A  person  who  has  lived  fulltime  in  a  principal  residence  within  the  Coastal  Zone  for  a 
minimum period of 10 years (not necessarily concurrently and at any time in their life) and 
the subject site is within 3km radius of where the applicant has lived or is living and who 
has never owned a rural house. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty, seconded by Cllr. D. Devereux and agreed. 

2.15 

To  amend  the  Chief  Executive’s  Recommendation  reference  CE  OPR  19  relating  to  the 
definition  of  Category  B  Housing  for  Persons  with  a  Demonstrable  Economic  functional 
need in the Strong Urban Influence Rural Area, the Stronger Rural Area and the Structurally 
Weak  Rural  Area  Types  on  pages 91  – 93  of  the  Chief  Executive’s  Report  by  adding  the 
following text to the definition: 

Functional economic need will also be related to persons who are working in that particular 
local rural area in a non-rural resource-based activity where such employment is full-time 
and  permanent.  The  applicant  must  be  able  to  provide  documentary  evidence  that  the 
employment is full-time and permanent.  

Following discussion, it was agreed to postpone consideration of the Motion until later in 
the meeting. 

2.8 

To  amend  the  Chief  Executive’s  Recommendation  CE  CH4.14  on  page  262  of  the  Chief 
Executive’s Report as follows:  

To  require  new  apartment  developments  to  comply  with  the  Specific  Planning  Policy 
Requirements and Standards set out in the Apartment Guidelines for Planning Authorities 
(Department of Housing, Environment and Local Government, 2018,2020), where relevant. 
Proposals  for  apartment  block  developments  in  excess  of  50  units  will  also  be  assessed 
having regard to the nature of existing developments in the area, existing and planned 
social  facilities  and  the  need  to  ensure  that  apartment  developments  contribute  to  the 
development of sustainable communities into the future. Each apartment should have its 
own door access to the external street/external communal access area.  

To  amend  Section  3.12.3  Apartment  Standards  and  Design  on  page  46  in  Volume  2 
Development Management Manual as follows: 

An apartment refers to a dwelling unit that is not a house and may comprise an apartment 
or  duplex  unit.  Each  apartment  should  have  its  own  door  access  to  the  external 
street/external communal access area. All apartments, including the new concept ‘Built to 
Rent’ and ‘Shared Living’ residential accommodation, must comply with the Sustainable 
Urban Housing Design Standards for New Apartments, Guidelines for Planning Authorities, 
(DECLH, 20182020), in particular, the specific planning policy requirements (SPPR) set out 
therein. Table 3-4 provides a summary of Section 2-5 of the Guidelines, relevant SPPRs and 
where they are addressed in this Plan with Table 3-5 setting out the detail of SPPR 3-6. 

Following discussion, it was agreed to amend the Motion as follows: 

Page 8 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

To  amend  the  Chief  Executive’s  Recommendation  CE  CH4.14  on  page  262  of  the  Chief 
Executive’s Report as follows: 

To  require  new  apartment  developments  to  comply  with  the  Specific  Planning  Policy 
Requirements and Standards set out in the Apartment Guidelines for Planning Authorities 
(Department  of  Housing,  Environment  and  Local  Government,  2020),  where  relevant. 
Proposals  for  apartment  block  developments  in  excess  of  50  units  will  also  be  assessed 
having regard to the nature of existing developments in the area, existing and planned 
social  facilities  and  the  need  to  ensure  that  apartment  developments  contribute  to  the 
development of sustainable communities into the future. Generally, where the site permits 
it,  each  apartment  should  have  its  own  door  access  to  the  external  street/external 
communal access area.  

To  amend  Section  3.12.3  Apartment  Standards  and  Design  on  page  46  in  Volume  2 
Development Management Manual as follows: 

An apartment refers to a dwelling unit that is not a house and may comprise an apartment 
or duplex unit. Generally, where the site permits it, each apartment should have its own 
door  access  to  the  external  street/external  communal  access  area.  All  apartments, 
including the new concept ‘Built to Rent’ and ‘Shared Living’ residential accommodation, 
must comply with the Sustainable Urban Housing Design Standards for New Apartments, 
Guidelines  for  Planning  Authorities,  (DECLH,  2020),  in  particular,  the  specific  planning 
policy requirements (SPPR) set out therein. Table 3-4 provides a summary of Section 2-5 of 
the Guidelines, relevant SPPRs and where they are addressed in this Plan with Table 3-5 
setting out the detail of SPPR 3-6. 

The amended Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Fleming, seconded by Cllr. M. Sheehan and 
agreed. 

2.18  To amend Objective SH14 in Chapter 4 Sustainable Housing, page 119 as follows:  

Objective SH14 
To  require  new  apartment  developments  to  comply  with  the  Specific  Planning  Policy 
Requirements and Standards set out in the Apartment Guidelines for Planning Authorities 
(Department of Housing, Environment and Local Government, 2020), save for the following 
deviation which is to require the floor area of all new apartments in settlements with a 
population less than 8,500 persons (as of Census 2016) to be a minimum of 90m2. 

Proposals  for  apartment  block  developments  in  excess  of  50  units  will  also  be  assessed 
having regard to the nature of existing developments in the area, existing and planned 
social  facilities  and  the  need  to  ensure  that  apartment  developments  contribute  to  the 
development of sustainable communities into the future.  

To amend Table 3-6 Specific Planning Policy Requirements 3-6 of the Apartment Guidelines 
on page 49 in Volume 2 Development Management Manual as follows:  

Page 9 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

*The Guidelines outline that the floor area parameters set out in SPPR 3 shall generally 
apply  to  apartment  schemes  but  do  not  apply  to  purpose-built  and  managed  student 
housing. The Council will require the floor area all new apartments in settlements with a 
population less than 8,500 (as of Census 2016) to be a minimum of 90m2. 

Proposed by Cllr. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. O’Suilleabhain, and agreed. 

2.9 

To  amend  Section  4.9.6  Modular  Homes  and  Objective  SH48  in  Chapter  4  Sustainable 
Housing on page 142 as follows:   

Section 4.9.6 Modular Homes and Pre-fabricated Timber Homes 

Alternative forms of house construction are evolving, and in many cases, are resulting in 
more  sustainable  houses  e.g.  timber  framed  homes  have  a lower  carbon  footprint than 
concrete built homes. As these houses may be cheaper to develop, they also offer a more 
affordable  housing  option  for  many  people.  While  the  Council  encourages  the 
development  of  sustainable  housing,  there  are  concerns  about  the  suitability  of  some 
building forms and associated external finishes, both in rural and urban settings. 

In  all  cases,  where  permission  is  sought  for  these  homes  in  the  open  countryside,  the 
developments  will  be  assessed  as  one-off  rural  housing  for  occupation  as  a  permanent 
residence, and accordingly the applicant will be required to demonstrate compliance with 
the  local  need  criteria  for  the  rural  area  type  that  the  subject  site  is  located  within.  A 
permanent  residence  condition  will  also  be  attached  to  the  planning  permission.  The 
dwelling will  be  deemed  to  have  fulfilled  the  applicant’s  rural  housing  need,  and  going 
forward, the applicant will therefore be considered to have previously owned a rural home. 
Notwithstanding, and in the case of a pre-fabricated timber dwelling only (e.g. log cabin 
type structure), the Council will consider the replacement of the structure with a house of 
more  permanent  construction  by  the  same  applicant  on  the  same  site  subject  to 
compliance with all normal planning and environmental criteria.  

As these developments are assessed as independent dwellings in the open countryside, it 
must have its own site edged red, comply with minimum site size requirements, be served 
by its own independent wastewater treatment system and water supply, provide a safe 
vehicular entrance that meets the minimum sightline requirements for the road on which 
the site is located, and comply with all other normal planning and environmental criteria 
and the relevant standards set out in Volume 2 Development Management Manual.  

Modular Units 
The use of modular units as permanent residences will be given consideration in rural and 
urban locations  on  a  case-by-case  basis.  It  must  be  demonstrated  that  the  units will  be 
provide  a  high  quality,  sustainable  construction  with  a  lifetime  similar  to  concrete 
construction (minimum 60 years). The external finishes of the units must be in keeping with 
the local vernacular finishes, and in this regard the units must therefore have an external 
plaster  finish  and  normal  roof  slates.  The  units  must  comply  with  all  other  standards 
pertaining to residential developments. 

Page 10 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

Pre-fabricated Timber Homes (Log Cabins) in Rural Nodes and the Open Countryside 

The Council will consider the development of pre-fabricated timber homes e.g. log cabin 
type  structures  on  a  case-by-case  basis  on  sites  in  the  open  countryside,  and  will  have 
regard to the following as part of that assessment: 

•  The  siting  of  the  unit  must  complement  its  rural  setting,  be  sensitively  sited  to 
ensure that it blends in with its surroundings and landscape setting, is not visually 
prominent especially when viewed from approach roads to the four main towns, 
scenic  routes  (see  Section  5  in  Volume  7  Landscape  Character  Assessment)  or 
detract  from  landscape  character  units  which  are  assigned  medium  or  high 
in  Volume  3.2  Landscape  Character 
landscape  sensitivity  (see  Section  5 
Assessment).  The  unit  should  be  simple  in  form  and  design  and  not  have  the 
characteristics of alpine dwellings. The external materials will be considered on a 
case-by-case  having  regard  to the  characteristics  of  the  site,  its  visual  sensitivity 
and visibility of the unit. The use of a timber external finish may be appropriate on 
some  rural  sites  where  the  site  is  well-screened  and/or  not  visually  prominent. 
Where  a  timber  external  finish  is  not  considered  appropriate,  the  Council  will 
consider an alternative external finish e.g. render or an appropriate cladding. 

•  The site must be suitably landscaped, and details of the proposed landscaping must 
be submitted with the planning application. The planting should be specified by a 
suitably qualified person. Where a timber finish is proposed the tree planting must 
be  at  a  density  that  will  provide  a  woodland  setting.  The  landscaping  must  be 
carried out before commencement of construction.  

•  The development must comply with all relevant Building Control Standards.  

Pre-fabricated Timber Homes in Towns and Villages 

In general, the Council will not consider the development of these units as an appropriate 
residential  unit  in  the  back  garden  of  an  existing  dwelling  house  in  a  town  or  village 
setting. The Council may give consideration where it will be on its own self-contained site 
with independent vehicular access and private open space. The structure must be simple 
in form and design, must not detract from visual amenity and must be in keeping with the 
existing built form and character of the area. In general, they will not be considered on the 
main  thoroughfares  in  the  town  or  village  or  in  visually  prominent  locations.  Where  a 
timber  external  finish  is  not  considered  appropriate,  the  Council  will  consider  an 
alternative external finish e.g. render or an appropriate cladding. The applicant will submit 
a planting plan prepared by a suitable qualified person to provide appropriate screening 
for the unit. The development must all comply with all relevant Building Control Standards.  

Objective SH48 
To  consider  the  use  of  modular  units  and  pre-fabricated  timber  homes  for  use  as  a 
permanent residence where it complies with the requirements of this section and all other 
normal planning and environmental criteria.   

Proposed by Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan and agreed. 

Page 11 of 16 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

2.10  To amend the 2nd bullet point on page 37 in Section 3.1.2 Standards for Single Dwellings 
in Rural Areas in Volume 2 Development Management Manual on page as follows:  

•  New rural dwellings must be well-designed, simple, unobtrusive, respond to the site’s 
characteristics and be informed by the principles for rural architecture. All new rural 
dwelling houses should demonstrate good integration within the wider landscape. 
The external materials should enable the development to blend into the landscape. 
The visual suitability of pre-fabricated timber homes (e.g. L log cabins) on rural sites 
will also be considered in accordance with the criteria set out in Section 4.9.6 in 
Chapter 4 Sustainable Housing 

Proposed by Cllr. O. Walsh, seconded by Cllr. C. Byrne and agreed. 

2.16  To  insert  the  following  new  text  in  Commercial  Development  in  Rural  Areas  in  Section 
6.7.5.6  after  the  third  paragraph  on  page  239  in  Chapter  6  Economic  Development 
Strategy:  

In recognising the importance of entrepreneurial spirit in setting up small businesses, the 
Council will permit the development of small workshops within the curtilage of a dwelling 
subject  to  the  normal  planning  criteria  and  assessment  of  impacts  on  neighbouring 
properties. These units will be linked to the occupier of the dwelling and accessed through 
the  same  vehicular  access  to  the  dwelling.  Such  developments  will  be  considered  as 
commercial properties and subject to additional controls.  

To  insert  a  new  Commercial  Development  in  Rural  Areas  Objective  on  page  240  after 
Objective ED118: 

To  facilitate  the  development  of  small  workshops  within  the  curtilage  of  a  dwelling  to 
facilitate the setting up of a small business subject to the criteria set out Section 6.7.5.6 
Commercial Development in Rural Areas and normal planning criteria and assessment of 
impacts on neighbouring properties.  

Proposed by Cllr. M. Whelan, seconded by Cllr. A. Connick and agreed. 

2.3 

To insert additional Section in Volume 2 Development Management Manual after Section 
5.4 Home Based Economic Activity on page 67 as follows: 

Remote Working 

As a result of the move towards remote working the development of a home office for 
use by the occupiers of the dwelling will be considered in addition to a detached garage 
or store where: 
•  The unit is located within the curtilage of the dwelling; 
•  The unit does not exceed 15 sqm and is single storey; 
•  The design and external finishes are compatible with the dwelling and the external 

materials are durable; 

Page 12 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

•  The unit would not adversely impact on existing effluent treatment systems; 
•  The unit would not result in any significant loss of privacy or amenity to any adjoining 

property; and 

•  The unit is only used for remote working associated with the occupants employment. 

Proposed by Cllr. K. Codd Nolan, seconded by Cllr. J. Hegarty and agreed. 

2.14  To  insert  additional  a  new  sub-section  in  Volume  2  Development  Management  Manual 

after Section 5.4 Home Based Economic Activity on page 67 as follows: 

Remote Working 

As a result of the move towards remote working the development of a home office for use 
by the occupiers of the dwelling will be considered in addition to a detached garage or 
store where: 

•  The unit is located within the curtilage of the dwelling; 
•  The unit does not exceed 15 sqm and is single storey; 
•  The  design  and  external  finishes  are  compatible  with  the  dwelling  and  the  external 

materials are durable; 

•  The unit would not adversely impact on existing effluent treatment systems; 
•  The unit would not result in any significant loss of privacy or amenity to any adjoining 

property; and 

•  The unit is only used for remote working associated with the occupant’s employment. 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. J. Hegarty. 

As this Motion was the same as Motion 2.3, it was agreed this Motion was also carried. 

3.3 

To amend Section 8.7.1.1 National Roads Projects on pages 313 -314 of the Draft Plan as 
follows: 

N11/N25 Oilgate to Rosslare Europort Harbour 
The improvement of road linkages to Rosslare Europort is supported in the NPF, the 
National Development Plan 2018 – 2027, the National Marine Planning Framework and 
the RSES for the Southern Region. 

Following an option selection process which assessed possible route options against 
Economic, Safety, Environmental, Accessibility & Social Inclusion, Integration and 
Physical Activity criteria, and examined multi-modal scheme options and alternatives, a 
preferred scheme option corridor was selected and published in June 2021. Following 
detailed scheme design and the completion of environmental and appropriate 
assessment processes, it is anticipated the scheme could proceed through the statutory 
planning processes in 2023. 

Proposed by Cllr. P. Breen, seconded by Cllr. W. Kavanagh and agreed. 

Page 13 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

3.5 

Having regard to the amendments to land use zoning in the Draft Rosslare Harbour and 
Kilrane Settlement proposed under Motion No. 2.44, that all associated and consequential 
amendments and updates arising from those proposed amendments be made to the Draft 
Settlement Plan to include the following:   

•  Amendments  to  Map  No.  3  Land  Use  Zoning  and  Figure  RHK  –  5  Flood  Zones 

Overlaid on Land Use Zoning Map.   

•  Amendments  to  Table  RHK-1  Future  Residential  Development  and  Delivery 

Approach; and  

•  Amendments to the Infrastructural Assessment Report. 

Proposed by Cllr. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed. 

3.6 

Having  regard  to  the  proposed  allocation  of  the  Plot  E  residential  zoned  land  quantum 
(1ha)  to  lands  in  Kilrane  under  Motion  No.  2.45,  that  the  zoning  of  the  Plot  E  lands  be 
changed  from  Residential  to  Community  and  Education  and  that  all  associated  and 
consequential amendments and updates arising from this proposed zoning amendment be 
made to the Draft Settlement Plan to include the following: 

•  Amendments  to  Map  No.  3  Land  Use  Zoning,  Figure  RHK.1  Place  and  Landscape 
Concept, Figure RHK - 2 Route Concept and Figure RHK – 5 Flood Zones Overlaid on 
Land Use Zoning Map.   

•  Amendments  to  Table  RHK-1  Future  Residential  Development  and  Delivery 

Approach; and  

•  Amendments to the Infrastructural Assessment Report. 

Proposed by Cllr. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed. 

3.7 

Having regard to the proposed zoning of 2.75ha of residential land in Kilrane (to the south 
of  Westwinds  housing  development)  under  Motion  No.  2.45,  that  all  associated  and 
consequential amendments and updates arising from the proposed amendment be made 
to the Draft Settlement Plan to include the following 

•  Amend  Map  No.  3  Land  Use  Zoning  to  identify  1.75ha  of  this  land  as  ‘New 
Residential, Phase 1’ and the remaining 1.0ha as ‘New Residential, Phase 2’.   
•  Amend  Map  No.  4  Objectives  and  Figure  RHK  –  2  Route  Concept  to  show  an 
indicative new Link road from the L-7107 through this residential zoned land, the 
lands to the east and north to connect to the L-7102 (Plot F). 

•  Amend Figure RHK – 2 Route Concept to show a strong frontage onto the L-7107 

and on both sides of the proposed Link Road.  

•  Amend Figure RHK – 1 Place Concept and Landscape Concept to show an indicative 

tree line along the proposed Link road.  

•  Amend Table RHK-1 Future Residential Development and Delivery Approach to set 
out the Plot I.Ds for both parcels and their tier, phase and location within the built 
up  footprint,  the  plot  sizes  (ha),  zoning,  density  and  residential  yield  along  with 
infrastructural requirements.  

•  Amend the Infrastructural Assessment Report to include these lands.  
• 
Insert a new Transport and Movement objective to read as follows: 

Page 14 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

To require a new Link road to be delivered as part of the development of the Plot E(i), E(ii) 
and F lands to form part of an overall Link road connecting the L-7107 to the L-7102. 

Proposed by Cllr. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed. 

3.8 

To amend Chief Executive Recommendation CE. RHK.13 on page 100 of Book 2 of the Chief 
Executive’s Report as follows: 

CE RHK.13 
Amend Point (b) in Objective RHK27 on page 89 as follows: 
To require new Link Routes to be delivered at the following locations (see Map 4 and 
conceptually on Figure RHK -2): 
(b) From St Brendan’s Estate to the L-3059 through the  the Community and Education 
lands and Plot A New Residential land, and through the Community and Education lands 
and Plot C New Residential lands to the roundabout at Ballyknockan.  

Proposed by Cllr. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed. 

3.9 

Having  regard  to the  proposed  allocation of 2.75ha of  residential  zoned  land  in Kilrane 
under Motion 2.45, that an additional 0.7ha of `Community and Education lands be zoned 
between the new residential lands and the adjoining properties to the south, and that all 
associated and consequential amendments be made to the Draft Settlement Plan including 
to Map No. 3 Land Use Zoning and Figure RHK – 5 Flood Zones Overlaid on Land Use Zoning 
Map. 

Proposed by Cllr. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed. 

3.10  That the Land Use Zoning Matrix in Section 2.5.2 of the Draft Rosslare Harbour and Kilrane 
Settlement  Plan  be  amended  to  allow  for  the  following  uses  to  be  O  -  Open  for 
Consideration on the Business and Technology (BT) zoned lands: 

•  Culture, recreation and leisure 
•  Medical and related consultants 

Proposed by Cllr. Lawlor, seconded by Cllr. M. Bell and agreed. 

2.1  With  regard  to  old  post  boxes  in  Wexford  Town  (NIAH  references  below)  and  the  Chief 
Executive’s  recommendation  to  not  add  these  to  the  Record  of  Protected  Structures,  I 
propose that we do not accept this recommendation and that these post boxes are added 
to the Record of Protected Structures. 

Old Post Boxes: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

O’Hanrahan’s Station (15500035) 
Spawell Road (15500024) 
North Main Street (15503093) 
School Street (15502161) 
St John’s Road (15502091) 
John Street Upper (15502127) 

Page 15 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.09.21 (2.30pm) 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

Maudlintown (15509004) 
Barrack Street (15505081) 
Kevin Barry Street (15505087) 
Trinity Street (15505102) 
Distillery Road (15507023) 

The Motion was proposed by Cllr. L. Kelly and seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes. 

At  this  point,and  noting  that  the  meeting  duration  had  reached  1  hour  and  55  minutes,  the 
Cathaoirleach declared the meeting closed and reminded the Members that a further scheduled 
meeting of the Council would commence at approximately 5.15pm. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Deireadh Fomhair, 2021. 

________________________  
Cllr. BA Murphy 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
David Minogue 
County Secretary 

Page 16 of 16 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
