Special County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Tuesday 11th April, 2023 
 in the Council Chamber at 11.15am (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Mary Farrell, Chair of Environment SPC 

Councillors: 

BELL 

BOLGER 

MAURA 
(Remote) 
ANDREW 
(Remote) 

FORDE 

TOM 
(Remote) 

OWENS 

JACKSER 

HYNES 

DAVID 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

BREEN 

PIP 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 
(Remote) 

KENNY 

DONAL 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

LAFFAN 

GARRY 
(Remote) 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN  

MOORE 

JIM 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 
(Remote) 

MURPHY 

BARBARA 
ANNE 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

MURPHY 

BRIDIN  

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

JOHN 
(Remote) 

Officials: 

Mr. Eamonn Hore, Deputy Chief Executive 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Sinead Casey, A/Director of Services 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 
Mr. Gerry Forde, Senior Engineer 
Mr. George Colfer, Executive Engineer 
Mr. Frank Burke, Climate Action Co-Ordinator 
Mr. Mark Adamson, OPW (on-line) 
Mr. Ciarán Conroy, OPW (On-line) 

Page 1 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

Apologies: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Cllr. Leonard Kelly 
Cllr. Frank Staples 

1. 

Introduction including Climate Change Mitigation 

 Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services welcomed Mark Adamson and Ciarán Conroy from the 
OPW to the meeting. Ms. Godkin presented an introduction and overview of climate 
change. She outlined the critical nature of the global climate challenge and the need for 
mitigation and adaptation. Ms. Godkin then set out the policy and legislative framework in 
Ireland and the timelines for the Wexford County Council Climate Action Plan. 

2. 

General Overview on Erosion in County Wexford - (Coastal Erosion, Coastal Flooding and 
Sea Level Rise) 

Mr. Frank Burke, Climate Action Co-ordinator gave a presentation outlining the statutory 
requirement for a Climate Action Plan and the objectives at local level. Mr. Burke outlined 
examples of mitigation and adaptation. He explained the important role the Members will 
play in championing behavioural change. 

Mr. Gerry Forde, Senior Engineer gave a presentation setting out some key statistics for the 
Wexford coastline. He also presented some keys issues posed by coastal erosion and 
outlined several case studies. 

Mr. George Colfer, Coastal Engineer outlined the challenges posed by coastal zone 
management, coastal erosion, coastal flooding, and sea level rise. He also advised how 
Wexford County Council manages risk and gave multiple examples of challenges facing the 
Wexford coastline. 

3. 

Input from OPW 

Mr. Mark Adamson, OPW gave a presentation outlining the role and function of the OPW 
in the area of costal erosion. 

4. 

Questions and Responses 

The Executive and officials from the OPW responded to a wide range of queries from the 
Elected Members in regard to the following: 

Issue in relation to power for fast charging EV points. 

• 
•  The need for a co-ordinated approach to the delivery of EV charging points. 
•  Does the 10km public coastal protection works and the 5km private coastal 

protection works quoted include Iarnród Eireann works? 

Page 2 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

Is additional funding required to deal with erosion at Grange? 
Is there a plan to protect land and wall at Kearns? 
Is there a co-ordinated plan for location of EV chargers? 

•  The need for quarries to supply rock armour. 
• 
• 
• 
•  Who is monitoring 21 coastal erosion risk zones and what supports are there? 
•  Any opportunity to review 1.5 rate for cost effectiveness for eligibility for funding? 
•  Serious concerns that there isn’t a national body appointed as lead agency with 

responsibility for coastal erosion. 

•  Query in relation to the distribution of active travel funding and the need for a 

more equitable distribution. 

•  Query in relation to the amount of funding spent defending Courtown north to 

Kilmichael. 

•  Request for total expenditure on coastal protection in County Wexford in the past 

20 years. 
Is Wexford’s coastline the most vulnerable coastline in the Country? 

• 
•  Who are the members of the inter departmental working group? 
•  The need for one single agency and one single funding stream. 
•  The need for meetings on coastal erosion on a far more regular basis. 
•  Who is responsible for the installation of EV chargers? 
•  What efforts are we making to install EV chargers? 
•  What has been done differently to alleviate the next flood in Bridgetown?  
•  What has been done with the sluice gate in Kilmore? 
•  The need for EV chargers in New Ross town. 
•  Query in relation to a specific planning enforcement case and if Wexford County 

Council will allow the individual to put in his own rock revetment.  
Is there a figure on what it would cost to hold the line along the Wexford coastline? 
Is the economic cost of coastal erosion being factored in? 
Is bureaucracy adding to the cost of protection measures? 

• 
• 
• 
•  What is the position on the new bridge in Enniscorthy? 
•  Funding for active travel and flood protection scheme for Wexford was welcomed. 
•  Have we explored possibility of combining public lighting columns and EV chargers? 
•  What areas have we plans to save over the next decade? At a cost of €8m per 

kilometre, it isn’t possible to save everywhere. 

•  Where will funding for Courtown beach nourishment come from and what efforts 

have been made to secure funding? 
Is it possible to build onto the end of the existing pier in Courtown? 

• 
•  Why was Enniscorthy flood scheme rejected? 

On the proposal of Cllr. Jim Moore and seconded by Cllr. Ger Carthy, the Members 
resolved that Wexford County Council engage with the SETU Land Sciences Department for 
monitoring, measuring, and developing a coastal management strategy in partnership with 
Wexford County Council.  

On the proposal of Cllr. Ger Carthy and seconded by Cllr. Davy Hynes, the Members 
resolved that the Chairs of the Municipal Districts and the Cathaoirleach of the Council 
request a delegation to meet the Minister for the Environment. 

Page 3 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 11.04.23 

On the proposal of Cllr. Lisa McDonald and seconded by Cllr. Michael Sheehan, the 
Members resolved to carry the following motion “this Council expresses its disappointment 
that there is no national agency appointed to deal with coastal change. As the county with 
the most vulnerable coastline to coastal erosion, we hereby call on the Government to 
immediately adopt a proactive national strategy with one national agency and a single 
funding stream to deal with the ever-present danger that the sea presents to our 
coastline”. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de bealtaine, 2023. 

________________________  
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 4 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
