Special County Council Meeting 06.05.25 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Housing Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Tuesday 6th May 2025 
 in the Council Chamber at 3.30pm (with some remote attendance) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Cllr. Ger Carthy, Leas Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors: 

Barron 

Vicky 

Boland 

Browne 

Codd 

Doyle 

Farrell 

Fleming 

Forde  

Nicky 
(Online) 
Aidan 

Jim 

Craig 

Mary 

John 

Tom 

Kenny 

Laffan 

Donal 

Walsh 

Catherine  

Garry 

Walsh 

Oliver 
(Online) 

McDonald 

Lisa 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Barbara-
Anne 
Marty 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

O’Rourke 

Owens 

John 
(Online) 
Jackser 
(Owens) 
Raymond 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

Shannon 

Kehoe 

Kelly 

Pat 
(Online) 
Leonard 

Sheehan 

Michael 

Sullivan 

Joe 

Officials: 
Ms. J. Carroll, Director of Services 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Lynda Lacey, Director of Finance  
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: Cllr.’s P. Breen, B. Murphy, A. Donohoe, Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 

Leas Cathaoirleach Councillor G. Carthy opened the meeting by thanking Ms. C. Godkin and her team 
for  facilitating  the  meeting.  Cllr.  Carthy  stressed  that  housing  remains  a  top  priority  for  elected 
members  and  acknowledged  ongoing  efforts  by  the  Council’s  executive  team  to  deliver  more 
homes.  

Page 1 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.05.25 

Cllr. G. Carthy outlined the format of the meeting indicating that Chief Executive Eddie Taaffe would 
outline the Council’s position on social and affordable housing, followed by questions submitted by 
Councillors in advance before opening it up to the floor. 

Mr. E. Taaffe informed the Special Housing meeting that: 

•  Wexford County Council aims to exceed its government-set target of 1,155 social homes by 

delivering circa 1,500 by 2026.  

•  To  meet  the  growing  need  for  one  and  two  bed  properties,  approximately  60%  of  units 

delivered will be one and two bedroom units. 

•  Wexford  County  Council  will  increase  its  acquisition  of  suitable  land  for  housing 
development and will consider using Compulsory Purchase Orders (CPOs) to secure land at 
fair market value. 
In addition to the Ramsfort Park project, affordable housing schemes were announced for 
Enniscorthy (two schemes) and Wexford with a commitment to provide affordable housing 
schemes across the County. 

• 

•  Wexford County Council is exploring serviced sites schemes in smaller towns and villages, 

helping to support rural communities and local services. 

•  Wexford County Council will continue to lobby Uisce Éireann for the provision of services in 

areas like Ferns and Camolin. 

The Chief Executive and members of the Housing Team responded to a wide range of queries from 
the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Do the Executive accept that the current targets for delivery under Housing For All are too 

low to meet the housing need in our county?  

•  What percentage of new builds will be 1 and 2 beds going forward? 
•  What stocks of land do we have available to us to use for social and affordable housing? 

Are we struggling with a small amount of land? 

•  What is the number of own builds we have delivered each year from 2022 and what is the 

plan for 2025 onwards each year? 

•  What affordable housing schemes have been applied for and what have been funded? 

Where are the locations and how many units in each? 

•  What plans do we have for further affordable housing schemes? 
•  Why can't we target more vacant properties and bring them back into housing stock and 
do we need more staff in this area to achieve this? Can we have more staff sanctioned 
from the Department? 

•  What are our plans regarding Tenant in Situ? How many units do we estimate we will 

acquire in 2025? Is the funding depleted already? Are we still looking at applications from 
2024?  

•  What can be done to bring creche’s which were built in estates but have never been 

operated back into productive use as residential properties? 

•  What are the specific obstacles to delivering more social and affordable housing? Is 

Wexford County Council lacking resources?  

•  What resources will be provided to meet increased targets? 
•  Request to write to the Minister for Housing, Local Government and Heritage asking that 

the National Planning Framework approval by the Oireachtas be expedited.  

Page 2 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.05.25 

•  Wexford County Council encouraged to acquire housing sites which haven’t progressed 

and consider purchasing entire estates for sale as affordable housing.  

•  Can front line staff be prioritised in the Part VIII planning process to ensure they can 

acquire housing in the areas they work in? 

•  Call for a more proactive approach to rightsizing. 
•  Request that the requirement for two medical professionals to complete grant applications 

forms be reduced to one. 

•  Are Wexford County Council salaries competitive in relation to the private sector? Do we 

need to write to the Minister seeking an increase in salaries? 

•  What further plans does Wexford County Council have to deal with complex housing cases 

afflicted by drug abuse and/or mental health issues? 

•  Can AHB’s sell their housing stock when the Council’s lien is removed from the properties? 
•  Why is there no affordable housing planned for Rosslare Municipal District and no land 

acquisition earmarked? 

•  View expressed that Wexford County Council’s targets for the delivery of one and two bed 

• 

units is not ambitious enough. 
Is Wexford County Council confident that it has sufficient resources to deliver on increased 
housing targets? 

•  The need to provide wrap around services for complex cases was highlighted. 
•  View expressed that CPO’ing land on the edge of towns is an easy option but will come at 

the expense of the town centres. 

•  Request that Wexford County Council consider CPO’ing derelict buildings in town centres 

to regenerate the towns. 

•  View expressed that Uisce Éireann is a barrier to development in many cases as local 

authorities no longer have control over identifying where services should be provided. 
•  Request that Wexford County Council bear in mind the impact on local communities if they 
propose to build large schemes in areas. Wexford County Council needs to be cognisant of 
the impact on existing services and mindful of the need for services and amenities to serve 
the increased population. 

•  What is the delay in the delivery of the first phase of houses in the Lyre, Enniscorthy? 
•  View expressed that Wexford County Council is not building enough houses in Enniscorthy. 
•  The reduction in the number on the housing list was welcomed as was the increase in Part 

V entitlement from 10% to 20%. 

•  View expressed that refusal of planning for housing estates should be a last resort and only 

considered after engagement with the developer to try and find a solution. 

•  Can Wexford County Council increase targets when the current Housing for All programme 

ends in 2026?  
Is there an issue in accessing funding from the Department?  

• 
•  Request to CPO land in smaller villages to deliver housing as many small villages are on the 

decline. 

•  View expressed that housing applicants are applying for housing in more urban areas even 
though their preference may be to remain in a rural area as they believe they have a better 
chance of obtaining housing. This in turn is distorting the true picture of the demand for 
services in rural areas and makes the business case to Uisce Éireann more challenging. 

•  Update sought on the proposed housing scheme in Bunclody. 
•  Affordable housing announcement of two schemes in Enniscorthy was welcomed. 

Page 3 of 4 

 
 
Special County Council Meeting 06.05.25 

•  Request that Wexford County Council make Uisce Éireann aware of where it would build if 

there were services available. 

The Members of Wexford County Council thanked the staff of the Housing Department for 
facilitating the meeting and their hard work. 

Leas Cathaoirleach Cllr. G. Carthy concluded the meeting by thanking Mr. E. Taaffe, Ms. C. Godkin, 
Mr. S. O’Connor and the housing staff for their work. Cllr. Carthy acknowledged the elected 
representative’s role in holding the Department of Housing to account but also stressed the 
importance of holding themselves to account through the work of the Housing SPC. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUSINESS OF THE MEETING. 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Bealtaine, 2025. 

________________________  
Cllr. Pip Breen  
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 4 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
