Special County Council Meeting 29.11.23 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Wednesday 29th November, 2023 
 in the Council Chamber at 3.30pm (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. John Fleming, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BARDEN 

PAT 

FARRELL 

MARY 

MURPHY 

BELL 

MAURA 
(Remote) 

FORDE 

TOM 

O’ROURKE 

BREEN 

PIP 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 
(Remote) 

OWENS 

BRIDíN 
(Remote) 
JOHN 
(Remote) 

JACKSER 

BROWNE 

AIDAN 

HYNES 

DAVID 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

BYRNE 

CATHAL 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

STAPLES 

FRANK 

CARTHY 

CODD 

GER 

JIM 

KENNY 

DONAL 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

LAFFAN 

GARY 

WALSH 

OLIVER 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 

LAWLOR 

GEORGE  WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 
(Remote) 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

DEVEREUX 

DIARMUID 

MOORE 

JIM 

DONOHOE 

ANTHONY 

MURPHY 

BARBARA 
ANNE 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Lynda Lacey, A/Head of Finance 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Director of Services 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 

Apologies: 

Cllr. Andrew Bolger 
Cllr. Leonard Kelly 

Page 1 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 29.11.23 

Cllr. Fionntán Ó'Súilleabháin 

Cathaoirleach John Fleming welcomed representatives of Rosslare Harbour residents in the public 
gallery and online.  He outlined the basis for the meeting. 

Cathaoirleach John Fleming informed the meeting that he had received legal advice shortly before 
the meeting which he had sought on behalf of the Members. The Cathaoirleach circulated the legal 
advice to all Members and made hard copies available in the Chamber. The Members were given 
some time to consider the advice. At the request of the Members, Mr. M. Drea read out the legal 
advice provided to the Cathaoirleach by Michael Lanigan of Poe Kiely Hogan Lanigan Solicitors. 

Cathaoirleach John Fleming advised that as the motions weren’t submitted under a specific section 
of the Local Government Act, it was taken that the motions were submitted under section 140 of 
the Local Government Act 2001. The reason being, Section 140 is the only piece of legislation which 
can be used by the Members to direct the Chief Executive to do or not to do a particular thing and 
the motions were directing the Chief Executive to do or not do a particular thing. 

The Cathaoirleach advised that Section 140 (8) states that “A motion to pass a resolution under this 
section shall be considered before any other business at the meeting, other than— 

(a) the election of a Cathaoirleach at any meeting where that office falls to be filled in accordance 
with Part 5, or 

(b) any other business which the elected council or joint body may decide should take precedence.” 

Given the complexity of the matters raised, the Cathaoirleach asked that Chief Executive, Mr. Tom 
Enright  provide  the  Members  with  a  statement  outlining  the  principal  issues  involved.  On  the 
proposal of Cllr. M. Sheehan, seconded by Cllr. G. Laffan and in accordance with Section 140 (8)(b) 
of the Local Government Act, the Members resolved to allow a statement from Mr. T. Enright, Chief 
Executive prior to discussing the three motions submitted. 

Mr. Enright welcomed the community representatives from Rosslare Harbour.  He acknowledged 
the fantastic work of the community in welcoming displaced people from Ukraine and other parts 
of the world to their village.  He said that people in Rosslare Harbour had every right to be 
concerned when plans were revealed by IPAS to place an additional large number of refugees into 
their community, and in particular where this may put an increased burden on local services such 
as doctors and schools. 

He stated that the Council accepts the need to provide accommodation for refugees but that great 
care needs to be taken to ensure that no community is disproportionately overburdened with the 
number of refugees placed into it especially where local services are not available.  He said that 
Wexford County Council has no role in placing persons seeking International Protection into 
accommodation in Wexford as that is a function of the Department of Children, Equality, 
Disability, Integration and Youth through IPAS.   

He outlined the Council’s responsibility in relation to the enforcement process and building control 
as a Planning Authority.  Regarding building control, he advised that under the Building Control Act 
site inspections were carried out by the Council and a number of modifications which varied from 

Page 2 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 29.11.23 

the planning permission granted were identified.  In accordance with normal practice, a warning 
letter had been served on the developer who has until the 8th of December to respond to the 
issues raised.   

Mr. Enright explained that in July this year, the Minister for Housing introduced a new Statutory 
Instrument SI 376 which provided for an exemption from planning to the temporary use by or on 
behalf of the Minister for Children, Equality, Disability, Integration and Youth to accommodate 
displaced persons or persons seeking international protection in (amongst other facilities) a hotel, 
health and social care accommodation.  He advised that the owners of the building have sought 
exemption under this provision to use the building as a Temporary Accommodation Centre. 

Mr. Enright said that Wexford County Council had concerns regarding the use of the planning 
exemption for this proposal and having considered the matter was satisfied that there were 
reasonable grounds to submit a Section 5 application for determination by An Bord Pleanála.  He 
said the application was submitted on the 10th of November and that the Council has sought a 
determination in relation to the application of exempted status and the intensification of use.  A 
request for further information was received from the Board on the 28th of November and a final 
decision is awaited.   

Mr. Enright said that separately the Council had received a Section 5 application from Deputy 
Verona Murphy on the 15th of November and that this application process should be concluded 
within 28 days.  He added that he could not comment further on a live planning process.   

Mr. Enright explained the clear separation between reserved functions which are the 
responsibility of Councillors and executive functions which can only be undertaken by the 
Executive of the Council.  He noted that whilst Section 140 of the Local Government Act 2001 
allows the Elected Council to instruct the Chief Executive in the performance of executive 
functions of the local authority, Councillors cannot make decisions on planning applications.  Nor 
can they require the Chief Executive to serve a warning notice or an enforcement notice because 
of failure to comply with a planning permission. 

In concluding his statement Mr. Enright said that the contents of a letter dated 21st November 
from Minister for Children Roderic O’Gorman to Minister James Browne stated that no contract 
will be entered into until the planning issues that have been raised by Wexford County Council to 
An Bord Pleanála are fully addressed.  He reiterated that Wexford County Council will meet its 
statutory obligations as a Planning Authority to ensure that planning legislation is complied with 
and will take all necessary action in accordance with the law where non-compliances are 
identified.   

1. 

Consideration of the following motions: 

On the basis of the legal advice received by Cathaoirleach John Fleming which stated “the 
proposed motions are seeking to direct the Executive to do things that are statutorily 
prohibited by Act of the Oireachtas and should not be proceeded with as same are ultra 
vires”, he ruled that the following motions could not be put: 
1.  That Wexford County Council undertakes not to validate any completion certificate in 
respect of the permission granted on foot of planning reference number 20220711, in 
circumstances where the issue of the permissibility of the material change of use, of 

Page 3 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 29.11.23 

the entire development, from a nursing home to an IPASS centre has not been 
conclusively determined, and therefore may require a fresh planning application.  

2.   That Wexford County Council determine with immediate effect, the Section 5 reference 
submitted on behalf of the residents of Rosslare Harbour on the 14th November, 2023, 
in relation to the development at St. Martins Road, Rosslare Harbour.  

3.   That Wexford County Council, in view of the seriousness and urgency of the situation, 
will immediately commence injunctive proceedings to prevent the unauthorised use of 
the development from continuing, in view of the material changes to the permitted use 
as a nursing home granted on foot of planning reference number 20220711. 

There was a lengthy discussion on the issues raised with contributions from Cllr.’s L. 
McDonald, J. Moore, G. Carthy, G. Lawlor, T. Forde, D. Hynes, P. Barden, J. Owens, J. Codd, 
F. Staples and C. Byrne. 

Cllr. L. McDonald proposed the following motion which was seconded by Cllr. J. Codd ‘‘This 
Council accepts the need for the state to provide accommodation for refugees and asylum 
seekers. We hereby call on the Minister for Children, Equality, Disability, Integration and 
Youth to ensure that no community is overburdened with the number of refugees and 
asylum seekers placed into it, especially where local services are either not there or under 
pressure.”  

Cllr. T. Forde proposed the following amendment which was seconded by Cllr. D. Hynes and 
agreed by all ‘‘This Council accepts the need for the state to provide accommodation for 
refugees and asylum seekers. We hereby call on the Minister for Children, Equality, 
Disability, Integration and Youth to ensure that no community is overburdened with the 
number of refugees and asylum seekers placed into it, especially where local services are 
either not there or under pressure. The Council will support and do all it can to assist in 
meeting the local demands for a nursing home in the Rosslare Municipal District’’ 

Cllr. G. Carthy proposed an amendment to one of the original motions which was seconded 
by Cllr. P. Barden but was ruled out of order by Cathaoirleach J. Fleming on the basis that 
he believed it still fell foul of the legal advice. 

Cllr. P. Barden sought to ask the Chief Executive a number of specific questions but was 
ruled out of order by Cathaoirleach J. Fleming on the basis that he believed they related to 
a live planning matter and therefore could not be discussed. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Nollaig, 2023. 

________________________  
Cllr. John Fleming 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea  
County Secretary 

Page 4 of 4 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
