Special County Council Meeting 05.12.22 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Special Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 5th December, 2022 
 in the Council Chamber at 10am (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. George Lawlor, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

BELL 

BOLGER 

BREEN 

BYRNE 

MAURA 
(Remote) 
ANDREW 
(Remote) 

KAVANAGH  WILLIE 

WHELAN 

MICHAEL 

KELLY 

LEONARD 
(Remote) 

PIP 

KENNY 

DONAL 

CATHAL 

LAFFAN 

GARRY 

CARTHY 

GER 

MCDONALD 

LISA 

CODD-NOLAN 

KATHLEEN 
(Remote) 

MURPHY 

CONNICK 

ANTHONY 

MURPHY 

FLEMING 

JOHN 

O’ROURKE 

BARBARA 
ANNE 
(Remote) 
BRIDIN 
(Remote) 
JOHN 
(Remote) 

FORDE 

TOM 

SHEEHAN 

MICHAEL 

HEGARTY 

JOHN 
(Remote) 

SULLIVAN 

JOE 

HYNES 

DAVID 

WALSH 

OLIVER 
(Remote) 

Officials: 

Mr. Tom Enright, Chief Executive 
Mr. Eamonn Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. Carolyne Godkin, Director of Services 
Ms. Annette O’Neill, Head of Finance 
Ms. Elizabeth Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. Sean Meyler, A/Director of Services 
Mr. Michael Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. Anita McLoughlin, A/SEO Housing 
Mr. Shay Howell, A/SA Housing 
Mr. Sean Kavanagh, SEE Housing 
Ms. Michele Bridges Carley, AO Housing 
Ms. Martina Donoghue, AO Housing 

Page 1 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 05.12.22 

Ms. Helen Frayne, SSO Housing 
Ms. Angela Finn, SSO Housing 
Ms. Caroline Creane, SSO Housing 

Apologies: 

Cllr. Mary Farrell 
Cllr. Frank Staples 
Ms. Amanda Byrne, A/Director of Services 

Congratulations: 

Cllr. G. Carthy congratulated Cllr. D. Hynes on joining Sinn Féin. Cllr. T. Forde welcomed Cllr. D. Hynes 
into the Sinn Féin party and commended him as a great colleague and friend. Cllr. D. Hynes outlined 
his reasons for the move. 

1. 

Questions and Comments by Councillors 

Mr. T. Enright, Ms. C. Godkin and members of the Housing Department responded to a 
wide range of queries from the Elected Members regarding the following: 

•  Delivery of units in rural areas where there is serviced land such as Arthurstown, 

Ballyhack, Duncannon, Ballycullane. 

•  Can Local Authority Home Loan form be simplified? 
•  Can Members get more input into the Choice Based Letting roll-out? 
•  Request to have an estate maintenance programme re-instated to deal with roads, 

footpaths etc. 

•  Confirmation of timelines for Ramsfort Park development going to tender. 
•  Confirmation of timelines for Creagh development. 
•  The use of innovative forms of construction such as modular housing. 
•  The number of people in Wexford drawing down First Home Choice loans. 
• 
•  The need for affordable housing in each district. 
•  The possibility of granting Part VIII planning permission for clusters of units in the 

Issues in relation to provision of services in towns and villages by Irish Water. 

Rosslare Municipal District. 

•  The need for the provision of rural housing as 1/3 of population is rural based yet 

only 10% of applicants apply for housing in rural areas. 

If planning expires, when is service capacity that was reserved released? 

•  Clarification if people not eligible for social housing can avail of homeless services. 
• 
•  Request for map detailing land owned by Wexford County Council which is serviced. 
•  Request for list of planning permissions that have planning granted but aren’t being 

developed. 

•  Timeline for development of affordable housing scheme in Wexford. 
•  Update on derelict house on Hill St. 
•  Need for additional emergency accommodation. 
• 

Inclusion of maintenance when assessing income even though payments may not 
be received. 

Page 2 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special County Council Meeting 05.12.22 

•  Situation regarding purchase of HAP properties with tenants in situ where a notice 

to quit has been served. 

•  The possibility of financial assistance being provided to families in emergency 

accommodation for the cost of travel. 

•  Request for a “builder liaison person” who can link in with each department. 

At this point, Cllr. Ger Carthy proposed that Wexford County Council develop an affordable 
housing scheme in each District, this was seconded by Cllr. Tom Forde and agreed by all. 

•  Clarification if the Council would purchase a HAP property with a long-term tenant 

in situ if the house didn’t fully meet the needs of the tenant(s). 

•  Possibility of parochial houses being used for emergency accommodation and 

parish land being used for social housing. 

Improved estate management clamping down on anti-social behaviour. 

•  Need for Local Area Plans to be delivered to provide more zoned land. 
•  Need for a downsizing scheme. 
• 
•  Serviced sites greater than 1 acre in Enniscorthy. 
•  Proposed land acquisitions in Enniscorthy. 
•  CBL training for housing applicants and Councillors. 
•  Timeline for commencement of construction on St. Josephs site. 
•  Prospect of developing land in the Maudlins, New Ross. 
•  Update on the KPMG report on affordable housing submitted to the Department. 
•  Update on Respond Convent in New Ross. 
•  Timeline for construction of units in Rosbercon. 
• 
Insufficient funding for energy retrofit programme. 
•  Timeline for allocation of units in Healysland, New Ross. 
• 
•  Plans for delivery of units in Bunclody. 
• 
Is Council withdrawing from certain areas and letting AHB’s deliver units? 
•  Level of interest from landowners in the expression of interest published. 
• 
Is there any update on proposed new planning laws? 
• 
Information session in each of the Municipal Districts. 
•  Extension of the eviction ban whilst construction ramps up. 
•  Request that working family payment be excluded from assessment of income. 

Is there a review built into CBL? 

Cllr.’s C. Byrne, J. Sullivan, A. Connick and G. Lawlor commended the housing staff for their 
work and acknowledged the efforts of Michele Bridges Carley and the HSSU team. 

Mr. T. Enright thanked the housing staff for their work. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an             

lá de Nollaig, 2022. 

________________________  
Cllr. George Lawlor 
Cathaoirleach  

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 3 of 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
