Statutory Budget Meeting 25.11.24 

WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Minutes of Meeting of Wexford County Council Held on Monday 25th November 2024 
 in the Council Chamber at 8.30am (with some remote attendance via Microsoft Teams) 

Attendance: 

In the Chair: 

Cllr. Pip Breen, Cathaoirleach 

Councillors: 

Barden 

Boland 

Pat  
(online) 
Nicky 

Kenny 

Laffan 

Browne 

Aidan 

Lawlor  

Byrne 

Cathal 

McDonald 

Carthy 

Codd 

Donohoe 

Farrell 

Forde  

Ger 
(online) 
Jim 
(online) 
Anthony 

Mary 
(online) 
Tom 

McDonald 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Murphy 

Donal 

Shannon 

Sheehan 

Staples 

Staples 

Sullivan 

Walsh 

Walsh 

Garry 
(online) 
George 

Darragh 
(online) 
Lisa 

Barbara-
Anne 
Bridín 
(online) 
Marty 

Raymond 
(online) 
Michael 
(online) 
Frank  
(online) 
Robbie 
(online) 
Joe 
(online) 
Catherine 
Biddy 
Oliver 

O’Brien 

Aoife Rose 

Kavanagh 

Paddy 

O’Rourke 

John 

Kehoe 

Pat 

Ó Súilleabháin 

Fionntán 

Officials: 

Ms. A. Byrne, A/Director of Services 
Mr. M. Drea, County Secretary 
Ms. C. Godkin, Director of Services 
Mr. E. Hore, Director of Services 
Ms. L. Hore, Director of Services 
Mr. S. Howell, A/Director of Services 
Ms. L. Lacey, Head of Finance 
Mr. E. Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Apologies: 

Cllr. John Dwyer, Cllr. John Fleming 

Page 1 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Budget Meeting 25.11.24 

Sympathy: 

The Cathaoirleach offered the sympathy of the Council to Cllr. John Fleming on the passing of his 
sister Mary Barron née Fleming. 

1. 

Opening address – Mr. Eddie Taaffe, Chief Executive 

Mr. E. Taaffe advised that due to the funding decisions taken by the Members, the 
Executive is able to propose: 

•  An €800,000 increase in the housing maintenance budget. 
•  A €78,000 increase in the General Municipal Allocation. 
•  The establishment of a sinking fund for our pools and attractions. 

Mr. E. Taaffe advised that the budget will provide for high quality services in 2025. 

2. 

Draft Budget Overview – Presentation 

Ms. L. Lacey gave a presentation which outlined the following: 

•  Backdrop to budget 2025 
•  Funding position for 2025 
•  Budget 2025 income and expenditure summary 
•  Expenditure and income movement overview 
•  2025 Budget decisions to be made, including: 

➢  Section 1 – 2025 Decision on Local Adjustment Factor for LPT 
➢  Section 2 – Commercial Rates 2025 & ARV 
➢  Section 3 – General Municipal Allocations  
➢  Section 4 – Rates on Vacant Properties 
➢  Section 5 – Small Business Support Scheme 2025 (SBSG)  
➢  Section 6 – Conclusions/Recommendations 

3. 

Draft Budget 2025 

Consideration of Statutory Budget Tables 
Ms. L. Lacey then brought the Members through each line of the budget tables and 
together with her colleagues from the Management Team responded to queries from the 
Members on a number of elements of the Draft Budget, as follows: 

Division A 

➢  Significant increase noted in A05 homeless services – Is there potential for more 

permanent solutions such as Distillery Road? 

➢  Where is the increase in the housing maintenance budget being funded from? 
➢  A0104, A0101 and A0401 – What is the difference between these items? Request 

for funding for footpaths. 

➢  Is the excess income in housing being spent in other areas? Could it be used to 

provide footpaths in housing estates? 

➢  Increase in homeless expenditure welcomed. Request that additional funding will 

go towards keeping the cold weather beds open for longer. 

Page 2 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Budget Meeting 25.11.24 

➢  Observation that many housing estates were built to accommodate parking for one 
car only. Request that funding be provided for a pilot project to provide additional 
parking. 

➢  A02 – Is this the budget for taking in charge of housing estates? 

Division B 

➢  Disappointment expressed that there isn’t significant additional funding for roads. 

Mr. E. Hore and the District Engineers were commended for their work. 

➢  Is there any change to the winter maintenance programme? Request that more 

rural roads be gritted. 

➢  How much is being saved by switching to LED public lighting? 
➢  Request for funding for a pedestrian crossing in a rural village. 
➢  Observation that the Department should be providing more funding for roads to 

deal with the impact of climate change. 

➢  Request that pedestrian crossings be provided at all playgrounds. 
➢  Request that line markings be renewed on minor roads. 

Division C 

➢  C0501 – Does this relate to individual well grants? How long does it take to process 

a grant application? 

➢  What are service support costs made up of? 
➢  C0501 – How many public conveniences do we have around the County. Do we 
outsource maintenance of these? Will public conveniences transfer to Uisce 
Éireann. 

➢  Request to clarify differential between income and expenditure in this division. 

Division D 

➢  What does the €1.2m expenditure in Forward Planning relate to? 
➢  D602 and D603 – What does the expenditure on Rapid and social inclusion relate to 

as WLD now lead on this? 

➢  It was noted that no specific project is identified for Rosslare Municipal District. 
➢  Request that planning application costs be circulated to the Members. 
➢  Observation that there is no relativity between the cost of processing a planning 

application and the fees received. 
➢  What does Enforcement Costs cover? 
➢  Unfinished housing estates – Is this expenditure for works to facilitate taking in 

charge of estates? 

➢  What support is provided for the National Heritage Park? 
➢  Request for investment in a heritage facility in north Wexford. 
➢  Request for appointment of dedicated Irish Officer. 

Division E 

➢  How much does it cost to clean up after fly tipping? 
➢  Consdieration should be given to adopting an initiative similar to the “Pure Mile 

Initiative”. 

➢  Request for extension of footpaths in Bunclody. 
➢  What is the €1.2m expenditure under E1501 for? 
➢  Request for explanation of landfill costs. 

Page 3 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Budget Meeting 25.11.24 

➢  Observation that there doesn’t appear to be any income associated with E1004. 

Query if there is potential to earn income before the site is disposed of. 

Division F 

➢  Observation that Enniscorthy is €65,000 down on expenditure. Request for 

increased funding for Enniscorthy festivals in 2025. 

➢  How much funding is provided for Enniscorthy and Bunclody swimming pools? 
➢  Request that the mobile library service be extended to take in Ballyroebuck school. 
➢  What does expenditure under F0404 cover? 
➢  What is the breakdown of the arts administration costs? 
➢  Request for confirmation that the playground in Kilmuckridge will be progressed. 

Division G 

➢  Is sufficient funding provided under G0404 given the change in legislation re: XL 

Bullies. 

Division H 

➢  If the budget is adopted, will Wexford County Council pursue landlords who have 

vacant commercial premises but won’t sell or won’t lease. 

➢  What is the shortfall between income and expenditure? 
➢  Change to the rates abatement scheme welcomed. 
➢  Observation that a lot of vacant properties are subject to preservation orders and 

view expressed that levies on properties in Templeshannon should not be increased 
until the regeneration of Templeshannon has been completed. 

➢  View expressed that H0303 expenditure is very high and efforts to reduce this 

figure welcomed. 

➢  Importance of tackling dereliction in our towns and villages emphasised. 
➢  View expressed that the rates abatement scheme should be wound down over 

time. 

➢  What percentage of housing stock requires upgrades to windows and doors? 

Decision on Rates Abatement Scheme (vacant properties) 
Recommendation to retain tiered basis with bands as follows:  

•  Apply 60% relief for all properties with annual rates to €2,000 
•  Apply 50% relief for properties with annual rates over €2,000 and less than €10,000 
•  Apply 30% relief for properties with annual rates over €10,000 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved to adopt 
a scheme for the abatement of rates due to it by liable persons, or classes of liable persons, in 
respect of vacant properties in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 of the Local 
Government Rates and Other Matters Act 2019.  The scheme provides for a tiered abatement 
of rates of 30%, 50% or 60% on vacant premises as provided for in Section 9 (1) of the Local 
Government Rates and Other Matters Act of 2019 for the financial year ending 31st of 
December 2025. 

Recommendation – adopt landlord/property owner scheme, as per draft abatement scheme 
(in accordance with Part 9 of the Local Government Act 2001). 

Page 4 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Budget Meeting 25.11.24 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. D. Kenny, the Council resolved to adopt 
a landlord/property owner grant scheme, as per the draft abatement scheme in accordance 
with Part 9 of the Local Government Act 2001. 

Agreement of proposals for Local Rates Schemes for SMEs 
Recommendation - retain existing Small Business Support Scheme. 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh, the Council resolved to retain 
the existing Small Business Support Scheme in accordance with Part 9 of the Local Government 
Act 2001. 

Adoption of Annual Rate on Valuation (ARV) 
Recommendation – Retain ARV of €0.253  

On the proposal of Cllr. J. O’Rourke, seconded by Cllr. B.A. Murphy, in accordance with section 
6 of the Local Government Rates and Other Matters Act 2019 as amended, the Council 
resolved to adopt the Annual Rate on Valuation of €0.253 applicable in the calculation of the 
amount of the rate under Section 4 of the Local Government Rates and Other Matters Act 
2019, as amended. 

Adopt 2025 Budget with or without amendment 

Having considered the Chief Executive’s Draft Budget of Wexford County Council for the year 
ending 31st December 2025, and subject to the provisions of Section 103 of the Local 
Government Act, 2001, as amended, on the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. G. 
Lawlor, the Council resolved to adopt the Draft Budget for 2025 without amendment.  

Ms. L. Lacey thanked Mr. S. Begley, Ms. A.M. Colfer, Mr. D. Noonan, and Ms. L. Berney for their 
efforts in drafting the budget. 

4.  3 Year Capital Programme 2025 - 2027 

On the proposal of Cllr. B.A. Murphy, seconded by Cllr. O. Walsh in accordance with Section 
135(2) of the Local Government Act, 2001, as amended by the Local Government Reform Act, 
2014, the Council resolved to adopt the Capital Programme 2025 – 2027. 

THIS CONCLUDED THE BUISNESS OF THE MEETING 

Daingithe ar an           

lá de Nollaig, 2024. 

________________________ 
Cllr. Pip Breen 
Cathaoirleach 

________________________ 
Michael Drea,  
County Secretary 

Page 5 of 5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
