WEXFORD COUNTY COUNCIL 

Statutory Budget Meeting 27.11.17 

Minutes of Statutory Budget Meeting of 
 Wexford County Council 
Held on Monday 27th November 2017 at 10.00 a.m. 
 In the Council Chamber, County Hall, Carricklawn, Wexford. 
************* 

Attendance: 

In the Chair:  Councillor J. Hegarty, Cathaoirleach. 

Councillors:  
P.Breen, 
A. Connick,    
W. Fitzharris,  
P. Kavanagh, 
L. McDonald;  
J. Mythen,      
M. Roche,  
T. Walsh; 

Officials: 

M. Byrne;  
A. Donohoe,   
J. Fleming,    
W. Kavanagh; 
J. Moore, 
L. O’Brien,  
M. Sheehan,  
M. Whelan. 

G. Carthy, 
K. Doyle, 
D. Hynes, 
A. Kelly,  
BA Murphy,   
O. O’Connell, 
J. Sullivan, 

K. Codd Nolan,   
M. Farrell; 
R. Ireton, 
G. Lawlor, 
M. Murphy;    
J. O’Rourke,      
O. Walsh; 

Mr. T. Enright, Chief Executive; 
T. Larkin, E. Hore, J. Carley, E. Taaffe, Directors of Services; 
Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance; 
Ms. L. Lacey, Financial Accountant; 
Mr. P. Collins, County Secretary. 

Apologies:   

Cllr. T. Dempsey; Cllr. F. ÓSúilleabháin; Cllr. F. Staples. 

At the outset the Cathaoirleach advised the Members that this was an important meeting 
with four specific decisions to be made. He noted that decisions made at the Budget 
meeting will impact directly on the Council’s ability to access funding to deliver its 
ambitious development programme. In light of the significant proposals presented in the 
budget he urged Members to seek any clarification they needed to ensure they are 
happy to support the budget as presented.  

Ms. A. O’Neill, Head of Finance, gave an overview presentation of the main factors 
informing the preparation of the Draft Budget 2018 and highlighted some of the specific 
changes/movements over 2017 figures. She then answered queries from the Members 
regarding the presentation primarily in respect of the proposal for rates harmonisation in 
the former New Ross and Enniscorthy Town Council areas and the associated Special 
Rates Incentive Scheme.  

Following further discussion the New Ross Members of the Council left the meeting to 
hold a private discussion on the matters relating to ratepayers in their district. The 
meeting then was adjourned briefly as some specific items were further clarified for New 
Ross members by the Head of Finance and the Chief Executive. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Budget Meeting 27.11.17 

When the meeting resumed the matter of rates relief on vacant properties was 
discussed.  The Council’s current approach for dealing with rates on vacant properties 
was outlined and the proposal for 2018 was set out for Members. 

The Council then considered Divisions A-H of the Draft Budget 2018 in detail and raised 
queries in all the programme groups which were answered by the Head of Finance, 
Chief Executive and by other Council Officials in attendance. 

The Head of Finance then circulated Sample Indicative calculations for the commercial 
rates proposed for 2018 across the three variants proposed or 2018.  

Following the presentation by the Head of Finance, the Chief Executive Mr. T. Enright 
addressed the meeting.  He firstly thanked the Head of Finance and her staff for the 
work they had put into preparing the budget and he also thanked the Members of the 
Council for their input during the various stages of the budget process.   

The Chief Executive recommended that the Council adopt the budget as presented.  He 
noted that the staff embargo has been lifted and that provision has been made for some 
restoration of staffing levels which will help to provide better services at a proper level.   

He also noted that there are some new items such as the €50,000 for the Fleadh Ceoil 
bid as part of the Council’s commitment to try and secure that event for the county.  He 
further advised that the economic benefit for County Wexford would be substantial.  He 
also referred to the figure of €100,000 of community budget funding for Sports Officers 
from the GAA, Leinster Rugby and the FAI within the council’s budget.   

The Chief Executive went on to speak about the high level on unemployment in Wexford 
and noted that 17% of the workforce leave the County everyday for work.  He further 
noted that the recent report from the CSO showed that Wexford had the lowest level of 
3rd Level participation in Ireland.  The numbers of opportunities of work for young people 
were limited in the region and that it required extra resources, such as those proposed 
using provisions in the Draft Budget to increase those opportunities. 

Central to the Budget strategy is the raising of extra revenues to allow the Council to 
access funding to pay for the investment Programme. To achieve the extra revenue, the 
harmonisation of rates in New Ross and Enniscorthy, and an increase of the general 
rate of 3% are required.  These measures together with the LPT increase will allow the 
Council to raise the finance to fund its Investment Programme, which in turn will 
generate economic activity and bring more jobs to County Wexford.   

The Chief Executive stated that the rate had not been increased since 2009 and he 
advised that the Council had met with the Chambers of Commerce throughout the 
County and had also held town hall meetings to explain the reasons for the increases.  
He also updated the meeting with regard to major projects in each of the four districts. 

He advised that money could be borrowed at a 1% fixed rate over a 20 year loan period 
at the present time. This advantageous rate would not be available much longer and that 
now is time to borrow for investment. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Budget Meeting 27.11.17 

It was the Chief Executive’s intention to inform the public and the rate payers of the new 
proposals and the ambitious programme that the Council has to improve the economy of 
County Wexford and to facilitate this brochures are currently being drafted by the 
Communications Officer and will be delivered to each of the 55,000 houses in the 
County via An Post.  He also committed to issuing a further update of the programme in 
18 months time to keep citizens updated on the progressing of the programme.  

Cllr. W. Fitzharris on behalf of the Members of New Ross District thanked the Chief 
Executive and his team and asked for clarification regarding the 17% Special Rates 
Incentive Scheme for the New Ross area, proposing it be retained over a 3 year period.   

Cllr. J. Mythen supported this proposal and commented that while a commitment for a 
future County Council could not be made at this point that the spirit of the agreement of 
the 17% rebate could be made by this Council.   

A show of hands confirmed unanimous support for the proposal and the Chief Executive 
noted the Members proposal in this regard.  

  Decision on Rates to be applied to Vacant Properties 

On the proposal of Cllr. M. Byrne, seconded by Cllr. W. Fitzharris, the Members resolved 
to approve the following motion in respect of the Vacant Premises Scheme for 2018. 

In  accordance  with  Section  31  of  the  Local  Government  Reform  Act  2014  that  the 
owners of vacant premises in all local electoral areas within the Council’s administrative 
area  shall  be  entitled  to  claim  and  receive  a  refund  of  a  maximum  of  90%  of  the  total 
annual commercial rates applicable to that premises.  

A roll call was then taken as follows: 

Voting in favour: – Cllrs: P. Breen; M. Byrne; G. Carthy; K. Codd Nolan; A. Connick; A. 
Donohoe; K. Doyle; M. Farrell; W. Fitzharris; J. Fleming; J. Hegarty; D. Hynes; R. Ireton; 
P. Kavanagh; W. Kavanagh; A. Kelly; G. Lawlor; J. Moore; B.A. Murphy; M. Murphy; J. 
Mythen;  L.  O’Brien;  O.  O’Connell;  J.  O’Rourke;  M.  Roche;  M.  Sheehan;  J.  Sullivan;  T. 
Walsh; O. Walsh; M. Whelan. 

Voting against – Cllr. L. McDonald. 

The proposal was adopted.  

  Decision on Rates Harmonisation and elimination of the base year adjustment 

On the proposal of Cllr. J. Moore, seconded by Cllr. R. Ireton the Members resolved to 
approve  the  following  motion  in  respect  of  Rates  Harmonisation  and  elimination  of  the 
base year adjustment: 

In accordance with Section 29(7)(b) of the Local Government Reform Act 2014 that the 
adjustment periods for the “specific areas” (as defined in Section 29(1)) comprising the 
administrative areas of the former Enniscorthy and New Ross Town Councils cease on 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the passing of this resolution, the base year adjustments for each of those areas having 
been hereby eliminated”. 

Statutory Budget Meeting 27.11.17 

A roll call was taken as follows: 

Voting in favour: – Cllrs: P. Breen; M. Byrne; G. Carthy; K. Codd Nolan; A. Donohoe; K. 
Doyle;  M.  Farrell;  W.  Fitzharris;  J.  Fleming;  J.  Hegarty;  R.  Ireton;  P.  Kavanagh;  W. 
Kavanagh;  A.  Kelly;  G.  Lawlor;  L.  McDonald;  J.  Moore;  B.A.  Murphy;  M.  Murphy;  J. 
Mythen;  L.  O’Brien;  O.  O’Connell;  J. O’Rourke;  M.  Roche;  M.  Sheehan;  J.  Sullivan;  O. 
Walsh; M. Whelan. 

Voting against – Cllrs. A. Connick; D. Hynes; T. Walsh. 

The proposal was adopted.  

  Decision on Increase of 3% in Annual Rate on Valuation (€71.52 to €73.67) 

On the proposal of Cllr. R. Ireton, seconded by Cllr. W. Fitzharris, the Members adopted 
the following motion in respect of an increase of 3% in the Annual Rate on Valuation: 

In  accordance  with  Sections  102-103  of  the  Local  Government  Act  2001  and  with  the 
provisions  of  the  Local  Government  Reform  Act  2014  that  the  ARV  applicable  in  the 
whole rating area in County Wexford is increased by 3% resulting in a move from €71.52 
to €73.67. 

A roll call was then taken as follows: 

Voting in favour: – Cllrs: P. Breen; M. Byrne; G. Carthy; K. Codd Nolan; A. Donohoe; K. 
Doyle;  M.  Farrell;  W.  Fitzharris;  J.  Fleming;  J.  Hegarty;  R.  Ireton;  P.  Kavanagh;  W. 
Kavanagh;  A.  Kelly;  G.  Lawlor;  J.  Moore;  B.A.  Murphy;  M.  Murphy;  J.  Mythen;  L. 
O’Brien;  O.  O’Connell;  J.  O’Rourke;  M.  Roche;  M.  Sheehan;  J.  Sullivan;  O. Walsh;  M. 
Whelan. 

Voting against – Cllrs. A. Connick; D. Hynes; L. McDonald; T. Walsh. 

The proposal was adopted. 

  Decision  on  Adoption  of  the  Statutory  Budget  for  Wexford  County  Council 

without amendment 

On  the  proposal  of  Cllr.  P.  Kavanagh,  seconded  by  Cllr.  M.  Byrne,  the  Members 
adopted the following motion with regard to the Statutory Budget for Wexford County 
Council for the financial year ending 31st December, 2018: 

In accordance with Sections 102-103 of the Local Government Act 2001 and with the 
provisions  of  the  Local  Government  Reform  Act  2014,  that  the  draft  Budget  as  set 
out  in  Tables  A  to  F  of  the  prescribed  form  of  Budget  prepared  in  accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  the  Local  Government  Act  2001  (as  amended)  and  Local 
Government  Financial  Procedures  and  Audit  Regulations  2002  presented  to 
Members, is adopted without change.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Budget Meeting 27.11.17 

A Roll Call was then taken as follows: 

Voting in favour: – Cllrs: P. Breen; M. Byrne; G. Carthy; K. Codd Nolan; A. Donohoe; 
K. Doyle; M. Farrell; W. Fitzharris; J. Fleming; J. Hegarty; R. Ireton; P. Kavanagh; W. 
Kavanagh;  A.  Kelly;  G.  Lawlor;  J.  Moore;  B.A.  Murphy;  M.  Murphy;  J.  Mythen;  L. 
O’Brien; O. O’Connell; J. O’Rourke; M. Roche; M. Sheehan; J. Sullivan; O. Walsh; M. 
Whelan. 

Voting against – Cllrs. A. Connick; D. Hynes; L. McDonald; T. Walsh. 

The proposal was adopted.  

The  Cathaoirleach  then  thanked  Ms.  A.  O’Neill,  Head  of  Finance,  Ms.  L.  Lacey, 
Financial  Accountant  and  other  officials  involved  in  the  preparation  of  the  Draft 
Budget for 2018.  He noted that this was a vote for the future of the County and that 
some hard decisions had to be made in particular for those Members from New Ross 
and Enniscorthy Districts.   

He  stated  that  the  fruits  of  this  decision  will  be  seen  in  the  future  and  it  is  a  great 
endorsement  of  the  plan  put  forward  by  the  Chief  Executive.  It  is  critical  that  the 
message  and  the  programme  be  communicated  to  the  public  with  regard  to  the 
projects in their area and the delivery of those projects. 

A  number  of  the  Members  from  the  various  political  parties  joined  with  the 
Cathaoirleach  in  congratulating  Ms.  A.  O’Neill  and  her  team  and  echoed  the 
sentiments expressed by the Cathaoirleach with regard to difficult decisions and the 
ambitious programme ahead of the Council. 

Cllr. A. Kelly then addressed the  Council; he advised that following today’s meeting 
he would be stepping down as  a Member of Wexford County Council.  He thanked 
everybody  for  their  courtesy  and  help  over  the  years.  He  advised  that,  after  his 
illness, his workload had increased and that he had less energy and that it was now 
time for him to look after his own health.  He further advised that it is proposed that 
Tom Forde will replace him as a Member of the Council. 

He thanked the Chief Executive and the other Members of the Management Team.  
He  also  noted  that  he  had  made  many  friends  over  the  years  amongst  the  other 
Councillors and that, despite their political differences, they were all working together 
for the good of Wexford.  

Cllr.  G.  Lawlor  on  behalf  of  the  Labour  Party  advised  that  he  had  worked  with 
Anthony  for  many  years  and  had  fought  many  battles  with  him  over  that  time.  He 
stated that Anthony’s passion was for the people of Wexford and that he was a man 
of the people who worked for the people over the years. 

Cllr. P. Kavanagh on behalf of Fine Gael stated that this resignation came out of the 
blue but he would like to pay tribute to Anthony whom he had only worked with since 
2014.    He  noted  that  he  was  a  gentleman  and  despite  their  political  differences  he 
was a friendly person and wished him every health and happiness in the future. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statutory Budget Meeting 27.11.17 

Cllr.  K.  Doyle  on  behalf  of  Fianna  Fail  thanked  Anthony  for  his  contribution  in  the 
Chamber, he was an honorable Councillor and  dogged in his efforts to work for the 
people of Wexford. 

Cllr. D. Hynes said it was a sad day for the Council that Anthony  Kelly was retiring. 
He noted that Cllr. Kelly was a fighter and did Trojan work for the people of Wexford.  
He also noted that the workload had increased for the Council Members in Wexford 
town given the small number of Councillors in the town and he stated that Anthony 
had more than proved himself as a Councillor over the years. 

Cllr. T. Walsh on behalf of the PBP advised that Deirdre Wadding who had worked 
with  Anthony  Kelly  would  wish  him  the  best  of  luck  in  the  future  and  that  he  had 
helped  herself  and  Tony  Walsh  as  new  Members  of  the  Council  over  the  past 
number of years. 

Cllr.  G.  Carthy  also  wished  Anthony  the  best  in  the  future  and  noted  that  he  had 
worked for the people of Wexford. 

Cllr.  J.  Mythen  on  behalf  of  Sinn  Fein,  said  this  was  a  sad  occasion.  Anthony  had 
suffered a major trauma a year and half ago and that he had huge strong character 
to get back on the road and  represent the people of Wexford; Anthony was a great 
man and Cllr. Mythen stated that he was privileged to meet and work with him. 

The Chief Executive spoke on his own behalf and on behalf of the staff of Wexford 
County Council and wished Cllr. Kelly the best in the future.  He  noted that he has 
made a huge contribution to public life in County Wexford, he is a gentleman and is 
held with huge respect and regard among both the staff and the general public.  He 
has  always  worked  hard  for  the  people  of  Wexford,  even  after  his  recovery  from 
illness. He wished him well with every health and happiness in the future. 

The Cathaoirleach added that Cllr. Kelly had represented the people of Wexford very 
well;  his  efforts  in  recent  years  were  a  tribute  to  his  spirit  after  his  illness.    He  had 
made  the  decision  to  leave  the  Chamber  on  his  own  terms;  he  thanked  all  the 
Members for their good wishes to Cllr. Kelly. 

This concluded the business of the meeting. 

County Secretary. 

Daingnithe ar an  

la de Nollaig, 2017.   

           Cathaoirleach 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
